GGF14 DAIS Session 2
====================

Notes: Susan Malaika

Actions: 
- The DAIS group will send the XML realization specification to the XQJ 
working group for review 
- Thomas Soddemann will tighten up the DAIO document and make an active 
attempt to recruit new members 
- The DAIS-WG co-chairs will consider the DAIS presence at GGF15 

Dave Pearson introduced the speakers. All the charts are on gridforge 
See the introduction charts here: 
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session2-Intro/en/1

(1) Mario Antonioletti introduced the relational realization
        See 
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session2-WS-DAIR/en/1
The presentation did not generate much discussion as the relational 
realization specification is mature, and the specifications it relies on 
are mature 

(2) Amy  Krause introduced the XML realization 
        See 
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session2-WS-DAIX/en/1
        The presentation generated some discussion  because the 
specifications the XML realization relies are evolving (e.g., the concept 
of XML Update and XML Collections)
        Norman Paton asked about any new concepts in XQJ (the JDBC of 
XQuery) that might be relevant 
        Jim Myers asked about JSR 170 and the relationship with the 
WS-DAIX specification. No conclusion was reached 

(3) Thomas Soddemann introduced the object realization
        See 
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF14-Session2-WS-DAIO/en/1
                 The presentation generated much discussion because the 
object relational specification is new and there are many standards and 
interfaces for it to be based on 
Points were raised by Greg Riccardi, Jim Myers, Norman Paton and Dave 
Pearson on: 
- naming objects
- partial materialization of objects
- disconnecting the objects from the object database
- the diverse object interface standards
- a common way of dealing with objects (analogy with genbank and life 
sciences ids) 
There was also a discussion that included the data area co-chair (David 
Martin)  on how to proceed, e.g., to generate a community. Suggestions 
included running a BOF at GGF to draw attention to the object 
specification. 

There was a discussion at the end of the meeting about the DAIS WG 
presence at GGF15 in Boston. GridWorld in Boston or scheduling an IDG 
session might be a good way for attracting people to the DAIS 
specifications in general and give feedback. 

