Minutes from the GSA RG meeting at GGF11, 8th of June 2004, 2.00-3:30 
p.m.
Minutes taken by Jarek Nabrzyski (JN),
some additions by Ramin Yahyapour (RY)
----------
Attendance list was distributed.
About 45-50 people participated.

RY presented roughly the agenda of the meeting:
1. Update on the group goals and activities
2. Use case scenario presentations by KISTI and Platform
3. Presentation by OGSA WG
4. Update on the use case template
5. Future meetings and activities
6. Summary

1.1. RY gave a presentation on the group activities update.
1.2 RY presented the group goals and the main problems we want to
tackle. He pointed out that we want to identify what services and what
protocols for Grid Resource Management and Scheduling are needed. It is
not about defining the scheduling algorithms. Nor creating a detailed
specification.

Question from the audience: how does it relate to the OGSA working
group? Also, research group does not create the specification so, what
do we want to do?

RY: collect uses cases, derive requirements, and check with the 
available
services, components and WG/RG activities including OGSA.
Goal should be: getting a common understanding about the specific needs
from a scheduling perspective and see where the existing things fit
together.
Identify gaps and deliver input to other groups. If necessary spin off
new groups to close gaps.


RY suggested to look at the OGSA use case doc which was made available
for public .... Go through it and have a look.

Action: Tomasz Haupt and Jarek Nabrzyski  will work together on the
OGSA use case document.

2.1. Use cases from Kisti (GRASP) were presented by Jaegyoon Hahm 
(KISTI, Korea).
Quest: What is the timeframe of the project?
- The system should be ready by the end of the year
Quest: What are the scheduling criteria?
- System can deal with multiple criteria

2.2. Use case Platform CSF were presented by Chris Smith (Platform, 
Canada).
Quest: is there a well-defined information based for a scheduler?
- arbitrary information can be stored into index server; depends on the
community requirements

Quest: Are workflows/co-alloctated resources supported?
- co-allocation is not yet supported; would be interesting to add.

Action:
Slides to be sent on the mailing list and to be put on the GridForge.
Discussion on technical issues of the presented systems took place.
This closes the use case presentations.


3.1. Presentation on the OGSA-WG Execution management Services by Ravi
Subramaniam from Intel. OGSA splits the execution management in a large
set of services.
RS agrees to serve as a liaison to OGSA WG.

Due to time constraints not all questions could be answered.
RY: Additional discussion to flesh out the interaction between these 
OGSA
services would be beneficial.
Discussion on the mailing list is encouraged. A follow-up session at 
GGF12
might help.


4. RY gives and update on the structure of use case template.
Template is available on GridForge.
Ramin will send the template to the group mailing list though.

5. Future activities and meetings
5.1 Work on the use cases document. Editors include: WG chairs, Chris
Smith, KISTI representative. Call for volunteers is still open. A first
draft version of the document should be ready by the GGF12 in Brussels.
Work should start immediately.

5.2 The group will meet in Brussels, probably two slots should be 
scheduled.

5.3 RY: several people contacted directly the WG chairs. Discussion 
should
be moved to the mailing list whenever possible. List currently has 
about 65
subscribers.

6. Ramin summarizes the meeting:
- please send use cases
- work on the document will start asap
- next meeting in Brussels; contributions and suggestions are 
appreciated
