Design team 4 - Information/Self-management (OGSA session 7)
============================================================

  June 9, 4:30-06:00pm
  Minutes: Hiro Kishimoto and Andreas Savva

* Information Services

  Abdeslem goes over several information related activities held at
  GGF11.

  INFOD (information Dissemination) WG: There are a lot of
  similarities.. Abdeslem feels he needs to add a couple of
  requirements to their work. 
   - Abdeslem volunteered to be liaison with InfoD-WG (no objections) 

   - Can allow for multiple logging services in GGF but not in OGSA
     - (wrt other similar efforts)

   WS based grid ad hoc BoF:
   - They want to try building OGSA implementation using only existing
     stable Web Service specs.

     Hiro: OGSA version 1 is based on WSRF and WRN but we do not
           preclude another rendering. It is not OGSA ver.1 compliant,
           but they are OK under GGF. We need to govern OGSA ver.1
           part carefully.
     Jeff: There is a big problem with managing huge number of things
           and services. There are multiple ways to do that but WSRF
           is especially designed to solve this problem.

   - Work on 'Naming' has to be done; to highlight what is new or
     different from more generic WS schemes (registries etc).  
     - Bill proposes to discuss Name service. However, Andrew cannot
       attend this session due to GFSG business.
       - Bill: It is traditional service.
       - Jeff: We don't have any name server now.
     - Since Andrew has strong interest in this topic it was agreed to
       postpone discussion for a later time. Bill will review Andrew's
       text and comment offline.

** WS-Discovery

   - Information from the list that WS-Discovery does not fulfill our
     requirements.
   - Need to look at this problem (discovery) more broadly and what is
     necessary for us; and we may find that it is a bigger
     problem. That is it is not just OGSA specific and so it might
     have to be done elsewhere (and OGSA feeds in requirements)
   - Next steps for version to be submitted
     - Need some minor revisions but don't see any major changes
     - (Bill Horn however still has some concerns with the current
       taxonomy)

* Self-management

   - Walkthrough of current text
   - Note that SLM becomes the point where policy resolution occurs

   - Align example figures and text (nits)
     Hiro: Current Fig 16 and its text do not match.
     Andreas: The concepts are not different.
     Jeffrin: We should change terminotlogy to match at name level.

   - Need to discuss again the location of models
   - Additional concepts
     - Make sure that shared resources are allowed. Allow for sharing
       explicitly and a way to reason about how they are used in
       shared contexts (e.g., different applications and/or users).       

   Jeff: There may be multiple managers controling self-*
         resources. And these managers may have different objectives
         that may result in conflicting actions. E.g. one manager
         controls for availability and another for performance. How to
         adjust among them is a challenge.

   Hiro: Does DMTF UC-WG extend CIM to meet self-management
         capability?

   Jeffrin: No. They do not start yet. It is very difficult and may
            take some time.

   - Do problem definition initially within design team and then send
     out to list
   - 1st week do problem definition
   - 2nd week drill down; consider setting up dedicated calls for
     this.
