GGF13 OGSA-WG session #2: Basic Profile (1 of 2)
===============================================

* GFSG request/proposal 

  Hiro introduced a GFSG proposal that applies to all OGSA design
  teams. No answer was expected in this session. (Decision postponed
  for the next day to give people time to think it over.)

  - OGSA design teams work well with low overhead and fairly
    restricted scope. But changing scope, increased work load
    (especially for team leaders) and the desire to improve visibility
    of the teams (and thereby increase the number of people working on
    them) leads to the proposal to allow an easy/low-overhead path to
    promote design teams to full WGs. E.g., no BoF, just submit an
    application.

  - GFSG questions (to design team leaders)
    - Is WG promotion beneficial or not?
    - Which teams want to be promoted this way?
    - Any obstacles or problems

  - Any new WGs created this way should be aligned to OGSA-WG (since
    they'll be defining profiles)

* Tracker resolution process

  Tom described how the tracker is set up and in particular the
  proposed artifact states. These are modeled along the lines of other
  WGs or TCs but may not be identical (explanation is also available
  on the tracker page)

  The intention is that all submitted artifacts should be closed
  before the document can be submitted.

  Artifacts can be submitted through the gridforge ogsa site or via
  the mailing list (if they are clearly label as issues someone will
  put them in the tracker).

* Referenced specifications

  - There is a well known inconsistency between the base notification
    and resource lifetime specifications. The specs are using
    different versions of the ws-addressing specification. Tom and
    Dave are following up on this issue with the TCs.

  - What is the difference between WS-Security and WS-I BSP? 
    
    There are some additional requirements. 
    
    Issue: Check whether there is a need for a normative reference or
           not and how it is used; delete otherwise.

  - Not all WSRF specs are referenced. Are they all needed or not?

    Some are missing and should be added; in particular the Base
    Faults specification should be referenced. Also need to check
    whether the WS-Resource specification should be added to the
    references. Other specs are probably not needed. For example, the
    ServiceGroup specification is not needed since the profile has no
    statements about it.

  - It has been stated that OGSA does not mandate WSRF. But if OGSA
    mandates the BP then it would effectively mandate WSRF.
    
    Agreed that this is something that needs more discussion. But it
    should be discussed in a session that is publicized in advance; to
    give the opportunity for interested parties to join the
    discussion.

    Agreed to schedule the last 30 minutes of the next session to talk
    about this issue. Send an email to the OGSA WG mailing list after
    this session (done).

* Security discussion 

  - Frank's and Takuya's presentation on security
    <URL>

  - A side discussion on the effect of additional grid requirements on
    the underlying tooling. In particular, whether vendor (tooling)
    support is essential before a feature or solution should be added
    to a profile.

    Two positions were put forward:
    1. Profiles should not attempt to describe 'solutions' of grid
       requirements that cannot be easily supported by current
       tooling. This group should wait until tooling catches up and
       only use whatever is available at the moment.
    2. Profiles should describe solutions to grid requirements even if
       these solutions are not widely adopted by tooling
       vendors. Waiting for vendors may take a long time; doing
       nothing does not seem reasonable. From experience (Frank)
       vendors do not seem to recognize grid requirements as important
       to them, at least not yet.

    There was further discussion on what specifications exist in this
    area and a suggestion to use kerberos (rfc1510) more in the
    profiles. It is widely adopted.

  - Scope of the proposed security profile: communication channel
    security, authentication.

  - Issue: Check status of WS-I BSP 1.0 and when it is expected.
  - It was re-stated that normative statements in specs referenced by
    an OGSA profile CANNOT be relaxed; they can be strengthened
    however.
    - But strengthening a statement might still cause problems with
      tooling.
    - The critical issue is whether the requirement is correct or not
    - But even if the requirement is right if the tooling support is
      not there ....
    - It was suggested that the statements being made in the profile
      should not cause the problems that the meta-level discusion
      seems to be assuming. In any case, the profile statements are
      concrete and should be reviewed one by one rather than having
      this kind of meta-level discussion that does not seem possible
      of reaching a conclusion satisfying to anyone.

  - WS-I SAML token profile: Might have to build something similar to
    this in order to support assertion communication as discussed in
    the presentation.
    - Embedding in saml token? Frank/Takuya are still looking into
      the specific rendering possibilities.

** Other issues
  - Transport/message to be added to issues for BP
  - Discovery of key-info for message level security (not an issue for
    transport(ssl) since it is part of that standard).
  - Use of proxy-certificates
    - There are a number of issues with such time-boxed credentials;
      need to pick these apart before making a decision on whether to
      include it or not. 
    - (There is no problem on-the-wire but validation logic is needed
      at the end and that is not part of normal tooling.)
    - It was suggested that for real deployments kerberos is more
      important than either proxy-certs or PKI. 
  - Consider including kerberos in the security profile
  - Communication of assertions

* General review of tracker artifacts
   
** 1316

   - Need to synchronize with WS-Addressing as that specification
     moves to a more stable draft

   - If there is a separate naming profile that the BP would depend on
     it. More discussion is need on how to take care of this
     dependency and in particular the release timing.

   - The only assertions left in the BP are those of structural
     conformance of EPRs.

** resource property for creation timestamp
   - Sounds like a reasonable idea, but the problem is that not all
     service might have one; perhaps this is optional. (no decision)

** QueryRP issue: Even if this is made optional the xpath requirement
   could still remain.

[Continued in the next BP session.]
    



  
  
    




