GGF12 - OGSA design team report session (#7)
============================================

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Overview
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF12-report-scheduling.ppt/en/1

* Data design team (Dave Berry)
  
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF12-design-report-data/en/1

  - Full day F2F Monday; interactions with other groups
    - Metatada: Abstract discussion. Decided to make it more concrete
      in the future by focusing on specific use cases
    - DAIS
    - Federation: interface should be the same as any other data
      source
    - Contexts
    - BasicFileAcccess
  - No architecture is one large problem that is not addressed yet
    - Need to co-ordinate/engage with GFS over proposed architecture
      since one of their deliverables is a FS architecture
  - Naming is another important issue; some work starting up; see
    related design team report

* Information (Abdeslem Djaoui* and Bill Horn)
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF12-design-report-infoservices/en/1

  - Attended a number of other WG sessions to explore relationships
  - Naming work started; initial draft out
  - Logging BoF; still looking for 3 partner

* Security (Frank Siebenlist and Takuya Mori*)
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF12-design-report-security/en/1

  - Security issues of naming (focusing on EPRs)
    - No conclusion yet reached; will look more into SGNP and
      handle.net 
      - Including licencing issues for handle.net
  - Continue refining use cases

* EMS (Ravi Subramaniam)
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF12-design-report-ems/en/1

  - Discussion with other groups raised issues wrt factoring and
    functionality in EMS. Especially how they would relate with the
    work of the GSA-RG
  - No concrete actions but a lot of followup is needed with the
    various groups 
    - Need refinement of the spec/explanation to help in the discussion
    - Considering a F2F with interested parties

* Naming (Andrew Grimshaw; given by Hiro)
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF12-design-report-naming.ppt/en/1

  - 2 sessions; general session and security focused session
  - Discussion on whether EPR+RR is sufficient or not
  - New version of naming document is out; includes motivation;
    - Comparison of different schemes not included yet

* Self-management (Jeffrin Von Reich; given by Hiro)
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF12-design-report-self.ppt/en/1

  - Agreed on problem definition as well as necessity
  - A number of people expressed interest; will solicit participants
    and start teleconfs
  - Not clear if we should go forward with this topic since it is
    higher level than the rest; resource problem with OGSA-WG

* Discussion 
  - Working in depth on self-management is probably premature; lots of
    work that needs to be done before that.
    - Some discussion on whether it should be kept in OGSA-WG or
      whether it would be better to try starting a WG; or at least
      think of doing a BoF
    - Still might be premature since we need lower levels
      (manageability layer) somewhat better defined
      - But we should keep in mind how definitions of lower layers
        might affect self-management later on
    - Agreed to recommend to Jeffrin to consider doing a BoF at a
      later GGF (work on this assumption)
      - NOT the next GGF (GGF13); maybe GGF14
      - Do some initial work first at low priority in a design team
    - Hiro will remind Andrew about new member

  - Do GFS and DAIS architectures match?
    - Not sure, but no clash is obvious
    - Main concern is to get GFS focused more on relation with OGSA

  - Job Management: How does it fit with WSDM?
    - No progress yet. Have to followup.

  - CIM looks an attractive choice due to its maturity and existing
    implementations
    - Some concerns with management aspects of CIM?
    - Need to look into it more; especially for EMS (e.g., job
      management); filesystem was another suggestion
    - As discussed in the CMM session need to get a better
      understanding of what's there by doing some preliminary
      modelling work

  - Jem/RM team to look at some of the profiling work (management etc)

  - How to attract more people or how to publicize more the work done
    in each design team within GGF; outreach work
    - Send suggestions to Hiro or Ian
    - Hiro to talk with Dave Martin since DaveM had some ideas

* Schedule/Deliverables

  - Use case document revision planned for October
    - EGR-RG interested in taking over the document and enhance it
      - No problem with it including science use cases; EGR is
        planning to also include science use cases
    - Hiro/Jeffrin to consult with Ravi/Nakata-san

  - OGSA v1 doc and glossary
    - Have to address public comments and submit to Editor again
    - A month for the glossary and slightly longer for v1 (1 1/2 months)
    - Agreed to use half the time of the regular call for the public
      comment review
    - Jem (Glossary) and Andreas (V1) to lead process

  - V2 schedule
    - Agreed to keep target dates as is

  - Roadmap
    - Need more feedback and content
    - Agreed that schedule is ok as is

* Proposal for 2 F2Fs before GGF13

  - Oct/Nov and Jan/Feb
  - Many events to avoid or try to schedule in conjuction with them
    (e.g., SC04, GlobusWorld)

* Teleconferences

  - Use Monday slot for design team calls and Wed for general call
  - Design team leads to send proposal on call time and expected
    attendees to make sure that overlaps are minimixed
  - Proposal to do two design teams call in parallel if there are no
    participant conflicts




