<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>

This is a static archive of the previous Open Grid Forum Redmine content management system saved from host redmine.ogf.org file /dmsf_files/9554?download=14691 at Thu, 27 Oct 2022 08:02:41 GMT
<head>
  <title>Global Grid Forum User Services -- GGF-6 July 2002 meeting minutes</title>
                
  <style>

	body {font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;

	background-color: #FFFFFF

	}

	h1,h2,h3,h4 {color: navy;

	}

	h3,h4 {margin-bottom: -1 pt

	}

  </style> 
       
  <meta name="description"
 content="Global Grid Forum User Services Research Group Minutes">
         
  <meta name="keywords"
 content="Global Grid Forum, Minutes, Edinburgh, GGF-6, 
group purpose, User Services, GF-WG">
</head>
  <body bgcolor="#ffffff" topmargin="10" leftmargin="30">
<!-- BEGIN MAIN BODY -->       
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="620">
     
</table>
   
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="540">
   <tbody>
      <tr valign="top">
    <td colspan="4"><img src="../GFlogo.html" alt="">
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr valign="top">
        <td><br>
        </td>
        <td colspan="2"><br>
        </td>
        <td align="right"><br>
        </td>
      </tr>
       
  </tbody>  
</table>
         
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="540">
   <tbody>
      <tr valign="bottom">
    <td colspan="4"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="5" width="1">
        </td>
   </tr>
    <tr valign="top">
    <td width="39"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="1" width="39">
        </td>
    <td width="1" bgcolor="#333399"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt=""
 nosave="" border="0" height="1" width="1">
        </td>
    <td width="20" bgcolor="#333399"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt=""
 nosave="" border="0" height="1" width="20">
        </td>
    <td width="480" bgcolor="#333399"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt=""
 nosave="" border="0" height="1" width="1">
        </td>
   </tr>
     <tr valign="top">
    <td width="39"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="1" width="39">
        </td>
    <td width="1" bgcolor="#333399"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt=""
 nosave="" border="0" height="1" width="1">
        </td>
    <td width="20"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="1" width="5">
        </td>
    <td width="480"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="20" width="20">
    <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">  <!-- text start in 4th cell of the table--> 
  </font>              
      <h2><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">GGF-User Services Research
 Group<br>
   Minutes from July 2002 Meetings</font></h2>
                  
      <div class="Section1">                
      <p class="MsoNormal"><!--[if !supportEmptyParas]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;<!--[endif]--><o:p></o:p></font></p>
                  
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">First 90
minute meeting, 22 July 2002</font></p>
                  
      <ul>
   <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Chair John Towns called the meeting
 to order, and explained the purpose of the Research Group to the first-time
 attendees. Towns announced an agenda change.  Owing to travel problems,
George  Myers (NASA), lead author/editor of the 'Grid Constitution' document,
had  not arrived.  Towns adjusted the agenda so that a discussion of the
'Trouble  Ticket Interchange' document (led by Esther) could begin immediately
following  other adminstrative items. </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">There was a brief discussion
 of two important BoFs that have ties to User Services, one for production
 Grid management, that were both being held at 7:30 on Tuesday (unfortunately).
  Members of the UserServ-RG split themselves up to attend both BoFs. </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Esther Balarnado started
 the discussion of the Trouble Ticket Interchange document by displaying
a  viewgraph of the tracking system interface used at her site, and asked
for  input.  Towns gave an overview of the goal of the document, which is
to define  what is required to be passed from site to site. There was some
general discussion  of the advantages and disadvantages of using XML to interchange
this information.    </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">A lengthy discussion followed
 of how ticket originators would likely want to know if a problem was solved,
 even if it had been handled by another site where the ticket was sent. 
Alistair  Mills opined that getting sites to even agree on a half-dozen fields
would  be a large step in the right direction, but difficult.  There was
some discussion  and general agreement of how we cannot anticipate all types
or combinations  of problems that might be passed from one user services
group to another.   </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">There was some consensus
 for a more detailed schema than in the current version of the draft, which
 uses a more minimalist approach.  Some urged for a less detailed approach,
 for simplicity purposes.  Basic information to be exchanged and passed along
 should include the following: Local unique identifier, User contact information,
 status, priority, desired response time (priority), email exchange history.
  No real need for resolution *type*, but just to make sure resolution of
the problem was achieved an a hand-off problem.  Resolution might include
handing back ticket to originator with the message that it wasn't their problem. 
           </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">John Towns introduced
the  'Support Services and Tools Requirements' document, as well as Alistair
Mills  who will be taking on the editing task of the document. </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Sean Mullin (IBM) volunteered
 to write some text in support of the Tools Requirements document, asking
for a tool that allows users to insert some sort of 'wrapper' to a submitted
job in order to ask for the collection of extra parameters.  </font></li>
               
      </ul>
                  
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Second 90
 minute meeting, 23 July 2002</font></p>
        <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">  </font>              
      <ul>
   <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Chair John Towns called the meeting
 to order, and gave an introduction of group and its goals for the benefit
 of new attendees. </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Towns handed out copies
 of the Grid Constitution document and announced he was going to lead the
upcoming discussion due to the emergency absence of George Myers. Towns went
thru the Grid Constitution document section by section, along with some co-authors
 of the document (Jim Ferguson, Nancy Wilkins-Deere) at the meeting.  Each
 person available commented directly on their section of the document and
asked for input.  Towns encouraged the authors to do another pass on their
sections and then solicit commentary after the conference via the mail list.
           </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Towns mentioned the fact
 that many of the authors are North American, and that it is very likely
that  the practices represented in the document may not reflect current practice
 and sensibility in the Far East or in Europe.  There was discussion on different
 mechanisms of allocation of resources, specifically for individual users.
  The discussion was steered back toward the draft of the Constitution, which
 is directed mainly at groups/institutions that have resources they wish
to  share on the Grid. Other issues brought up in the discussion may be ripe
for further docuemnts from the RG in the future. </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">There was a discussion 
on provisions for auditing the usage of resources, and ensuring each site 
is contributing to the Grid as they have promised.  There was also a discussion
 on user 'ethics', and expectation of users behavior.  Section 4.2 needs
to  be expounded upon, perhaps to try to ensure a minimum code for users.
 Perhaps  as a template for each organization/provider to base their policies
upon.   Maybe a "how to be a good Grid citizen" statement. </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Towns and the groups'
hopes  for this document (Grid Constitution) is that it is essentially finished
(i.e. in official GGF Draft status) by the next meeting, mostly by iteration
over email.  Towns explains the current document process.  </font></li>
          <li><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">There was a call for pointers
 to information to be possibly be added to the RG web site.  Nancy Wilkins-Deere
 volunteered to collect this information from everyone.  She'll wait a week,
 and then do a call via the maillist to give people time to subscribe to
the  email list. Collection of this may precipitate the writing of a catalog
or  other document directed at users.  Also need to collect online training
materials  that are grid- and user- related. </font></li>
               
      </ul>
   </div>
                 
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
        </font></p>
               
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
        </font></p>
               
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
    	   <!-- END info--> <font size="1" color="#bbbbbb">   </font></font></p>
               
      <hr width="75%" align="center">               
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><font size="1"
 color="#bbbbbb">Please send edits or updates for document to  <a
 href="mailto:ferguson@ncsa.uiuc.edu">ferguson@ncsa.uiuc.edu</a>.  </font></font></p>
               
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><font size="1"
 color="#bbbbbb">06 April 2000 </font></font></p>
               
      <p>  </p>
        </td>
      </tr>
         
  </tbody>  
</table>
   <br>
  <br>
 
</body>

This is a static archive of the previous Open Grid Forum Redmine content management system saved from host redmine.ogf.org file /dmsf_files/9554?download=14691 at Thu, 27 Oct 2022 08:02:41 GMT
</html>
