<html>

This is a static archive of the previous Open Grid Forum Redmine content management system saved from host redmine.ogf.org file /dmsf_files/7341?download= at Fri, 04 Nov 2022 15:49:59 GMT
<head>
<title>
	Advanced Collaborative Environments
</title>
<body background="../images/background_gradient03.html" bgcolor="#ffffff" TEXT="#000000" link="#003300" VLINK="#003300" ALINK="#000000">


<!-------------------------------------------------------->


<FONT SIZE="2" face="arial,helvetica">
<h4>
	Minutes from ACE-grid at GGF7

</h4></FONT>
<i>	March 6, 2003</i>
<ul>
<pre> 
Remote sites in attendance:
Manchester University
Korea Institute of Science and Technology
Boston University
LBNL
Argonne National Lab

10 remote attendees


Agenda:
Security
Discussing finalizing document
Dsicussing future topics

Overview of attendance and IP

Security Document:
Fleshing out document from bullets into prose
Spread info out so it's not as lumped
Mike Daw concerned with no VRVS section
  - Jim Meyer contributed
  - Phillippe Galvez

Future Direction:
data formats
  - wg group created
  - data models might be more app orient.
  - come up with a coherent mission statement services
  - Jason, Brian (NewMIC), Ivan specifically interested
  - viz, collaboration, etc
  - not tackle too broad of topics
  - Jason made point about viz services is a collaboration service
    - is it necessary for a generic collaboration service
    - Mike Papka argues yes
  - Brian mentions a coll serv concept as generic framework for building
    more specific services
    - collab serv to be its own wg
  - not trying to standardize services but inform on key components of
    services ag2.0 wg/discussion papers Mike Daw brought up scheduling
  - spawning wg
  - draft standards
  - Mike Daw will start discussion on the list
  - not in a specific sense (i.e., AG) but in a generic sense (i.e., video
    conferencing in general) Jason Leigh International co-chairs Discussion of
    how to bring AG into the GGF community
  - RFC style document from lab instead of rg
    Discussion about workshops coordinated with GGF
  - ACE group sponsor data model workshop
  - discussion of outside funding (John)
  - AG meetings between scheduled GGF meetings


Homework:
Mike Papka - viz services
Brian - collab services
Mike Daw - scheduling
John -  data formats and data models
Start discussion and get volunteers for international chairs






</pre>        
</ul>




<!-------------------------------------------------------->
<!-------------------------------------------------------->
<!--------modify info here-------------------------------->

<font face="arial,helvetica" size="-1">
<hr noshade size=1>
this site maintained by:<br>
    <a href="http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu/" TARGET="_blank">
    <img src="../images/footerlogo-combined.html" border=0 alt="NCSA"></a>
<br>
    <a href="http://calder.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ACCESS/" TARGET="_blank">
    Alliance Center for Collaboration Education Science and Software</a><br>
    <a href="http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu/" TARGET="_blank">
    The National Center for Supercomputing Applications</a><br>
    <a href="http://www.uiuc.edu/" TARGET="_blank">
    University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign</a><br>
<br>
    <a href="mailto:tcoffin@ncsa.uiuc.edu">tcoffin@ncsa.uiuc.edu</a><br>

<p><h6>Last modified: April 23, 2003</h6><br>
  

<!-------------------------------------------------------->

</font></body>

