<html>

This is a static archive of the previous Open Grid Forum Redmine content management system saved from host redmine.ogf.org file /dmsf_files/7337?download=11530 at Fri, 04 Nov 2022 18:38:27 GMT
<head>
<title>
	Advanced Collaborative Environments
</title>
<body background="../images/background_gradient03.html" bgcolor="#ffffff" TEXT="#000000" link="#003300" VLINK="#003300" ALINK="#000000">


<!-------------------------------------------------------->


<FONT SIZE="2" face="arial,helvetica">
<h4>
	Minutes from ACE-grid at GGF8

</h4></FONT>
<i>	June 25, 2003</i>
<ul>
<pre> 
Remote sites in attendance via AccessGrid:
Manchester University
ACCESS
Boston University


ACE GGF 8 Meeting Notes - June 25, 2003 (Notes taken by Jason Leigh)

-	Security document (behind schedule)
-	Need editor to assist with security document
-	GGF now requires 2 note takers per meeting
-	Move ACE web site to forge.gridforum.org
-	Deb will volunteer to edit the security document.
-	Mike will post drafts of security document on source forge.

John Shalf

-	Standards for protocols to allow viz packages to speak to each other.
-	Currency of data (e.g. if data is duplicated- like in mirror sites) should 
	be added as an issue
-	Need to schedule future AG meetings
-	Decide on which areas to focus
-	White paper - make it due GGF9 to flush out the scope & use cases to explain 
	why you have those requirements.
-	GGF9 layout stories and check consistency.
-	Start looking at tech evaluation of existing systems
-	Proposed new WGs to address those requirements.

-	Jason says we want to draft a well thought out whitepaper by well respected 
	people that turns into a citeable ggf document that can be taken to 
	independent funding agencies.
-	Deb asked if security is something you care about in the collab services.
-	Should gather requirements orthogonally first before trying to jam them together.
-	Deb: Can you group Added value services & user direct services as one? 
	Deb is skeptical.
-	Can you group end uers services with low level services?
-	There might be a taxonomy of the above. We need to classify and group them.

Mike Daw
-	graap resource scheduler group have not fully considered this yet.
-	GFD-e.5 - experimental API for scheduling resources.
-	Conclusion: very relevant without too much modifications for ACE.
-	But document currently does not explicitly consider.
-	GRAAP recommends a liason point between groups
-	Mike things it may not be spinning off a WG for ACE scheduling.
-	Advanced Reservation API document is actually done and finished. Same 
	people still working in GRAAP-WG.
-	GRAAP has done a use case document (GGF7).
-	GRAAP focusing on SLAs, advance reservation being a special case. Use case 
	of room booking was not in that document.

-	Is archiving and storage considered a collaborative tool?Yes.
-	Archiving of the collaboration? Ie audio and video streams? Yes.
-	We want some kind initial scoping of services across the board- that 
	are interesting to us in ACE.
-	Perhaps for any given service look into how Collaboration may impact it?
-	E.g. Audio is service. But conferencing of audio changes things fundamentally.
-	Perhaps take a specific task- like a collab task , a viz task, and look at 
	the services that are employed in the task. This could be a good way to make 
	this more tangible.
-	Use cases. Deconstruct use cases into services.
-	Stephen Pickles (Manchester) - can provide 3 use cases: derived from 
	computational steering in reality grids.
-	What does the community have implicit agreement/disagreement on- e.g. 
	recitilinear grids; video multicast.
-	Interested in intersection between viz and ag.
-	What info do you need to help you decide if you want to participate in 
	ACE discussion groups?
-	At what level of participation is ACE looking for? All levels from app 
	users to low level requirements.
-	Ivan has an idea for an end result.
-	Ivan wants more reinforcement of what the ACE charter is and what 
	the state of ACE is.
 
Action items:
-	What are the future meeting dates- AG meeting dates before the next GGF.
-	Schedule a viz discussion over AG- June 30. 11 central time.
-	ACE will post an email on the mailing list.
-	Poll:
-	Viz - 9
-	Collab - 16
-	Scheduling -  9

Jason and Brian will grok the notes, send it out and schedule a meeting.


What % of industry representation should we consider? E.g. Polycom.
Perhaps contact industry to invite participation. - invite them to attend working 
groups rather than RG.


ACE GGF 8 Meeting Notes - June 25, 2003 - Notes taken by Ivan Judson

-	Welcoming comments by Mike Papka.

-	Introduction by Jason:

-	Looking for the right path, the current one is not fixed.

-	Update by Mike Papka:

-	ACE more GGF Compliant
-	Security document is getting converted from a bulleted list to a real 
-	document.
-	Deb Agarwal volunteers to work on Security document, John Shalf 
-	indicates interest in editing, but doesn't know the doc or the GGF plan.

-	Viz Services update by John Shalf:

-	Motivated by interoperability, and cross-viz tools sharing, also by a 
-	real desire to see viz tools utilize the Grid.

-	Possible wg areas:

-	Security
-	Data Models/Structures
-	Transport/Serialization
-	GridFTP doesn't solve all the problems.
-	Resource Management / Performance Prediction
-	UI abstraction layers
-	Parallelism (temporal/spatial)
-	Latency Tolerant Algorithms
-	Storage Resource Management interactions

-	Roadmap
-	GGF8 -
-	Continue discussion after the meeting
-	Continue meeting on AG?
-	Develop Requirements Specifications Whitepaper
-	id editor
-	whitepaper by ggf9

-	merge req specs at ggf9

-	do tech whitepapers at ggf9, done by ggf10

-	propose new wg's to fill in the holes

-	Collaboration Services -- Brian Corrie

-	Collaboration is like Visualization, defined to establish a standard 
-	for services used for collaboration.

-	How do we organize, describe, and deal with collaboration services.

-	Deb asks about security, thinks it's a good idea to consider it 
-	orthogonal at the moment.


-	Resource Scheduling - Mike Daw

-	current activities review
-	how do ACE Scheduling needs interact with other GGF Scheduling Groups.

-	Graap has a use case scenarios document,
-	room scheduling slipped from making it in that document

-	More requirements gathering, use cases and scenarios would be good 
-	even as input into the GRAAP process.

-	General Discussion:

-	Archiving, datastorage? Yes, it's a collaborative service.

-	How to move the group ahead:

-	service specific work process
-	survey and identify services we care about

-	task specific work process

-	who's interested in actively working on these problems?  Use cases from 
-	Stephen Pickles, from computational steering in the Reality Grid.

-	Action Items:

-	What are the future meeting dates?
-	Between now and GGF9











</pre>        
</ul>




<!-------------------------------------------------------->
<!-------------------------------------------------------->
<!--------modify info here-------------------------------->

<font face="arial,helvetica" size="-1">
<hr noshade size=1>
this site maintained by:<br>
    <a href="http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu/" TARGET="_blank">
    <img src="../images/footerlogo-combined.html" border=0 alt="NCSA"></a>
<br>
    <a href="http://calder.ncsa.uiuc.edu/ACCESS/" TARGET="_blank">
    Alliance Center for Collaboration Education Science and Software</a><br>
    <a href="http://www.ncsa.uiuc.edu/" TARGET="_blank">
    The National Center for Supercomputing Applications</a><br>
    <a href="http://www.uiuc.edu/" TARGET="_blank">
    University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign</a><br>
<br>
    <a href="mailto:tcoffin@ncsa.uiuc.edu">tcoffin@ncsa.uiuc.edu</a><br>

<p><h6>Last modified: June 25, 2003</h6><br>
  

<!-------------------------------------------------------->

</font></body>

