Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 6th August 2003. 

Participants:

Savas Parastatidis
Adbeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks

Regrets:

David Snelling


1. Review of minutes from the call on 30th July.
   The minutes are at: 
   https://forge.gridforum.org//projects/ogsi-wg/document/Primer_conference_call_minutes_30th__July/en/1/Primer_conference_call_minutes_30th__July.txt 
   No changes were needed. 
   

2. Process/management issues:

   o No new issues. A collision of updates occured just before the call. The cause was understood, but shows the
     procedure is fragile as previously noted.

3. Questions/discussion/new text
    
   o Comments on new text in section 2.2 (Summarising features describing grids and motivating OGSI)
     - The example of comupational grids is ok, but not the whole story.  It should be put in the context
       of other sorts of grids (data grids, for example) - Tim to update.

   o Consistency of examples. Adbeslem is testing consistenct via experiments in GT3. We should improve the progression 
     of the 'counter' example by using portType extension to develop the portType. Resolved to use Integer type
     (not positiveinteger) for the counterValue SDE.

   o Discussion of handlset parameters in findbyHandle; this issue is unresolved - no input from authors.

 Outstanding assignements

    o Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Tim Banks
    o Section 7 gridService portType- Tim Banks (No input needed, making progress) 
    o > Section 11 - Notification details - Adbeslem
    o > Sections 6,9 - Service Groups and Registries - Possibly Adbeselem
    o > Section 10 - Factories - Savas
    o Security Issues, Section 12 - Krishna Sankar
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday August 13th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.
