Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 29th October 2003. 

Participants:
Abdeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks
Jem Treadwell

Regrets:
Anbazhagan Mani
Savas Parastatidis


1. Review of minutes from the call on 22nd October.
   No changes needed.


2. New materisal/Reviewing 

   Tim Reported discussion with Anbazhagan regarding chapter 12.

   
   Discussion of the relationship of GT3 and the Primer: the primer explains concepts behind the implementation in GT3,

   Reviewing: Jem will review chapters 1,2,3  then go on to 9, 11.

   Chapter 10: needs work, to be investigated by Abdeslem.

   Review by the spec authors should start as soon as possible - Tim will coordinate with Dave Snelling

   Definition of the level of experience expected of the audience: Jem will write this into comments on chapters 1,2,3.


   Tracker items 287 and 193 need to be closed.

     

   Outstanding assignements

   
    o section 4 updates (according to Savas note of 26/10)        
    o Section 8 gridService portType & Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Tim Banks
    o Section 12 - Notification details - Anbazhagan Mani
    o Section 11 - Factory example. Savas
    o Section 10 - How to create and manage registries -  Abdeselem
    o Security Issues, Section 13 - Not assigned
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday November 5th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.