Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 11th February 2004. 
articipants:
Tim Banks
Jem Treadwell
Savas Parastatidis


Regrets:
Abdeslem Djaoui
Dave Snelling


1. Organisation/process/management.

   Previous call (4th Feb) was missed due to a mistake over the time by Tim.
   Future calls: Savas unavailable until GGF10
                 Abdeslem unavailable until 24th Feb


2. Review of new material:

   Reviewed Sections 6 and 11.  Changes incorporated into version 72 of the working draft.

   New material in progress for chapter 8 and zection 5.4.2 to be reviewed by Savas.
 
   Only the security section then remains.


   Current status

Abstract     --------          Rewritten             
Chapter   1  About this doc    Complete
Chapter   2  Grid requirements Complete
Chapter   3  Background tech   Complete
Chapter   4  Describing        Complete
Chapter   5  Concepts          Complete  New section 5.4.2 - to be reviewed by Savas. 
Chapter   6  Implementation.   Reviewed by Jem on 27th Jan. New section Completed & Reviwed
Chapter   7  USing Grids       Complete - Reviewed 28th Jan.
Chapter   8  GridService       Complete - Ready for review - to be reviewed by Savas
Chapter   9  HandlResolver     Complete - Reviewed 28th Jan.
Chapter   10 ServiceGroup      Complete - Reviewed 28th Jan.
Chapter   11 Factory           Complete
Chapter   12 Notification.     Reviewed 10th December, comments added to master copy as markup - Mani to incorporate - Done.
Chapter   13 Security          Needs work            
Chapter   14 Glossary          Complete
Chapter   15 Author info       Complete 
Index                          Partial
  
Next call - 4:30pm UK time, Wednesday February 18th using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

