Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 14th January 2004. 

Participants:
Tim Banks
Jem Treadwell
Abdeslem Djaoui
Dave Snelling

Regrets:
Savas Parastatidis

1. Organisation/process/management.

   Dave snelling proposed a change to the time of the Primer call to accomodate a new series of OGSI-WG calls
   earlier in the afternoon without conflict.  
   The Primer call will take place at 16:30 from Jan 28th onwards.



2. Review of new material:

   Reviewed Section 7.1. Tim to incorporate changes discussed.

   Sections 7.2 and 7.3 need rework - Tim to complete.
   Insufficient review work had been done on chapter 10 to continue - postponed until the next call.
   
Chapter   1  Complete, but need to review forward references at a late stage.
Chapter   2  Complete
Chapter   3  Complete
Chapter   4  Complete
Chapter   5  Complete
Chapter   6  (Implementation). Tim to Complete
Chapter   7  (Using grid services) 
  Sections 7.1 Complete - reviewed Jan 14th
  Section  7.2 Complete - reviewed Dec 17th
           7.3, 7.4  - Require rework by Tim.

Chapter   8  GridService portType - Savas to complete 

Chapter   9  Handle Resolution   - needs review and update. Tim to complete. 

Chapter   10 ServiceGroups/Registries.  Review during call on 28th Jan   (Updated since last review on 17th December)
                                 - Jem to review with fine toothed comb.

Chapter   11 Factory  - needs review and update
Chapter   12 Notification.  Reviewed 10th December, comments added to master copy as markup - Mani to incorporate
Chapter   13 Security
Chapter   14 Advanced Topics
Chapter   15 Glossary
  
Next call - 4:30pm UK time, Wednesday January 28th using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.
There will be no call on January 21st

Agenda on Jan 28th:  Review rework to sections  7.3, chapter 10 plus anything else that's completed.
