Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 23rd July 2003. 

Participants:

David Snelling
Savas Parastatidis
Adbeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks

Regrets:



1. Review of minutes from the call on 9th July.
   No changes were needed.
   

2. Process/management issues:

   o GridForge locking. Rerefeshed awareness of 'locking' protocol.  Site suggestion to improve this has been
     made but needs chasing down (Tim Banks to chase via A Binder) 
  
   o (refresh) MS Word Change tracking should be used when making updates, next author should check, accept/modify changes.
      The process is: check the document is unlocked, get the lock (be sure you really have it), cut/paste updates into
      assigned section, replace as new version.

3. Questions/discussion/new text
    
    o Meaning of Handleset argument to findByHandle (Spec p49) - final sentence, 2nd half is mysterious.
      Savas to clarify via ogsi-wg that the clause is superfluous. 

    o New input: HandleResolver section from Savas.
                 Update on Notifications from Adbeslem

    o Relationship with the spec for detailed portType syntax (eg faults): paraphrase the detailed information
      and make reference. No need to repeat what is in the spec, but avoid readers needing both documents just
      to get the feel of the whole picture.
    
 Outstanding assignements

    o Security Issues, Section 12 - Krishna Sankar (not present)
    o Clarify semantics of destroy - Tim Banks
    o Section 7 gridService portType- Tim Banks (No input needed, making progress)
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday July 30th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items