Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 22nd October 2003. 

Participants:
Adbeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks


Regrets:
Anbazhagan Mani
Jem Treadwell
Savas Parastatidis

1. Review of minutes from the call on 15th October.
   No changes needed.


2. Discussion of chapters 4 (WSDL/GWSDL and examples)

   - Agreed section 10.1 should be deleted - it duplicates material now in 7.2. 
     Chapter 10 should contain details of how to create and manage registries (Abdeslem to implement)

   - Chpater 7 (Using grid Services) needs (simple) material on how the client gets initial references. Abdeslem will supply.
    
   - Chpater 6 Implementation style with replicated instances needs update. (Tim to implement)
    
   - Structure of chapter 4 and examples which use gwsdl without it having been introduced. Section 5.1 should
      be brought forward to chapter 4.  (Tim to implement) 
      Also discussed the level of WSDL knowledge assumed by the Primer - need to clarify to answer tracker item 291 (define the audience)   
  

   Outstanding assignements

    o Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Tim Banks
    o section 4 updates (according to note of 26/10)        
    o Section 8 gridService portType- Tim Banks
    o Section 12 - Notification details - Anbazhagan Mani
    o Section 10 - How to create and manage registries -  Adbeselem
    o Security Issues, Section 13 - Not assigned
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday October 29th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.