Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 30th July 2003. 

Participants:

Savas Parastatidis
Adbeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks

Regrets:

David Snelling


1. Review of minutes from the call on 23rd July.
   The minutes are at: 
   https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsi-wg/document/Primer_conference_call_minutes_23rd_July/en/2/Primer_conference_call_minutes_23rd_July.txt
   No changes were needed. 
   

2. Process/management issues:

   o There is no way of subscribing for notification of changes to a document, which would be useful to manage/encourage
     collaborative work, including reviews.  Tim will submit a site suggestion on behalf of the Primer group.

3. Questions/discussion/new text
    
    Review of section 4.7 Notification concept. Need to integrate (via extends mechanism) xlm for the example with
    examples introduced in section 3.2. Savas to distinguish namespaces of examples in secion 3.2 to provide
    a basis for 4.7. Other comments are in version 8 of the document.

    Review of section 8: 
    Explain relationship of resolver with the hosting environment via examples in the implementation section.

 Outstanding assignements

    o Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Tim Banks
    o Section 7 gridService portType- Tim Banks (No input needed, making progress) 
    o > Section 11 - Notification details - Adbeslem
    o > Sections 6,9 - Service Groups and Registries - Possibly Adbeselem
    o > Section 10 - Factories - Savas
    o Security Issues, Section 12 - Krishna Sankar
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday August 6th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.