Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 3rd September 2003. 

Participants:
Adbeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks


Regrets:
Savas Parastatidis
David Snelling

1. Review of minutes from the call on 27th August.
   no Changes were needed, the miunutes are here:
    https://forge.gridforum.org//projects/ogsi-wg/document/Primer_conference_call_minutes_27th_August/en/1/Primer_conference_call_minutes_27th_August.txt


2. Process/management issues:

   Adbeslem will be on vacation from 4th Sept to 19th, but at a conference 25th Sept to 3rd Oct and unable
   to contribute during that time.

3. Questions/discussion/new text
    
   o Discussion of the structure of chapters 5, 6 9:
     
     5: Implementation (could be restrited to Server side, but ok as it is).
     6: More on the The client side and use of Registries and bindings.
     9: Parallel the OGSI spec in explaining details of the servicegroup porttypes with examples. 
        The servicegroup should be explained in terms of collections which need some sort of 
        registration interface to populate the group (could be a derivative of the registration
        portType in the spec.) The existing explanation with a 'local' interface seems 
        artificial. 

  


 Outstanding assignements

    o Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Tim Banks
    o Section 7 gridService portType- Tim Banks (No input needed, making progress) 
    o > Section 11 - Notification details - Adbeslem
    o > Sections 6,9 - Service Groups and Registries - Possibly Adbeselem
    o > Section 10 - Factories - Savas
    o Security Issues, Section 12 - Krishna Sankar
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday September 10th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.