Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 7th January 2004. 

Participants:
Tim Banks
Jem Treadwell
Savas Parastatidis
Abdeslem Djaoui

Regrets:
None

1. Reviewed the status of the Primer and actions required.

Chapter   1  Complete, but need to review forward references at a late stage.
Chapter   2  Complete
Chapter   3  Complete
Chapter   4  Complete
Chapter   5  Complete
Chapter   6  (Implementation) Tim to Complete
Chapter   7  (Using grid services) 
  Sections 7.1, 7.3, 7.4  - review on 14th Jan
  Section 7.2 Complete  (reviewed 17th December) 

Chapter   8  GridService portType - Savas to complete 

Chapter   9  Handle Resolution   - needs review and update.

Chapter   10 ServiceGroups/Registries.  Review during call on 15th Jan   (Updated since last review on 17th December)
                         Jem to review with fine toothed comb.

Chapter   11 Factory  - needs review and update

Chapter   12 Notification.  Reviewed 10th December, comments added to master copy as markup - Mani to incorporate
Chapter   13 Security
Chapter   14 Advanced Topics
Chapter   15 Glossary
  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday January 14th using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.
There will be no call on January 21st

Agenda on Jan 14th:  Review Sections 7.1, 7.3, 7.4  and rework to chapter 10.
