Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 13th August 2003. 

Participants:
Savas Parastatidis
Adbeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks
David Snelling

Regrets:



1. Review of minutes from the call on 6th August.
   (unable to post the minutes on Gridforge)


2. Process/management issues:

   None

3. Questions/discussion/new text
    
   o New ServiceData material is posted in Gridforge.
     - Format of Servicedatavalues which is sent in response to findservicedata and notification subscription is the same and 
       the primer should demonstrate that there are two ways (pull and push) to get the same info.
     - Discussion of the reasoning behind the mutability=constant declaration of ogsi:interface.
     Karl Czaikowsky may be able to provide the rationale: Tim will post a question to OGSI-WG.


 Outstanding assignements

    o Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Tim Banks
    o Section 7 gridService portType- Tim Banks (No input needed, making progress) 
    o > Section 11 - Notification details - Adbeslem
    o > Sections 6,9 - Service Groups and Registries - Possibly Adbeselem
    o > Section 10 - Factories - Savas
    o Security Issues, Section 12 - Krishna Sankar
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday August 20th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.
