Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 2nd July 2003. 

Participants:

Abdeslem Djaoui <a.djaoui@rl.ac.uk> 
Savas Parastatidis <Savas.Parastatidis@newcastle.ac.uk>
Tim Banks <tim_banks@uk.ibm.com>
Krishna Sankar <ksankar@cisco.com>
David Snelling <d.snelling@fle.fujitsu.com>

Regrets:
None


1. Review of minutes from the meeting at GGF8.
   These items are to be entered as tracker items for change in GridForge.  Notes from the GGF8 meeting (thanks, Dave Snelling) and 
   notes from discussions during the call are contained in the relevant Tracker item.
   
	287	Interoperability issues   (Assigned to Krishna)
	288	Stateless/Stateful debate 
	289	Multiple arguments to an extensible op
	290	OGSI and Identity 
	291	Define the audience for the Primer 
	293	Section on Locators is unclear 
	294	Need summary diagram of grid portTypes
	295	Advice on GWSDL -> WSDL translation
	296	Advise on the need to describe semantics

   The issue of notating semantics for extensible operations was added to item 289.
    
   Also discussed:
    - The issue of programming guidelines of WSDL, and the need for documentation. This, it was decided,
      was an issue for WSDL in general, not for OGSI. WSDL documents must contain annotations or references to 
      documents describing the semantics of the service.

    - Compliance: this is not an issue that GGF or OGSI can address.

2. Process/management issues:

   o Gridforge:
       
      Discussion of reviewing process. Dave prposed using multiple copies of the document for review purposes. 
      Recruitment of reviewers from the spec authors can take place as sections are finished. Dave/Tim to experiment
      with Gridforge.

      Working drafts will be managed via Gridforge locks in private workspace.  Tim has the pen after the call.

3. Any other business: 

   o Comment: Terminology in the picture in section 3.1.2 (publish/find/invoke) is not what is used in web services. Use 'bind',
     not 'invoke' for consistency. (-> gridforge)


Meeting adjourned- remaining items carried over to next call.
  
   
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday July 9th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

  Agenda: o Progress on New material/Tracker items?
          o Meaning of 'nillable'

