Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 27th August 2003. 

Participants:
Adbeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks


Regrets:

Savas Parastatidis

1. Review of minutes from the call on 20th August.
   (unable to post the minutes on Gridforge)
    


2. Process/management issues:

    o  Note: Adbeslem will be on vacation (Sept 2nd -> 18th, then at a conference, 'till 1st Oct). Won't be at GGF9

3. Questions/discussion/new text

    o Discussion of new version of chapter 2.
      Abdeslem's comments:

       - Figure 2.1: are the registries administratively separate?  The description/figure should say that they are somehow connected.
       - gwsdl -> wsdl comparison/conversion: this is too much detail for the introductory chapter.
       - How is the title of the chapter adressed: make it clearer that  section 2.2 contains a list of the requirements
       - client-side: the statement about WSDL support being sufficient is not quite true (an instance factory is
         provided for use with jaxrpc by GT, but maybe close enough for the introduction.

    
  Outstanding assignements

    o Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Tim Banks
    o Section 7 gridService portType- Tim Banks (No input needed, making progress) 

    o Section 11 - Notification details - Anbazhagan Mani
    o Sections 6,9 - Service Groups and Registries -  Adbeselem
    o Section 10 - Factories - Savas
    o Security Issues, Section 12 - Not assigned
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday August 27th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.