Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 26th November 2003. 

Participants:
Tim Banks
Jem Treadwell
Savas Parastatidis

Regrets:


1. Review of minutes from the call on 19th November.
   NO changes are needed. Minutes are kept on Gridforge here: 
   https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewCategory.php?group_id=43&category_id=400&language_id=1&sort0=ddate&dir0=1

2. Process/Management
   Jem and Savas will both miss the call next week.
   Posting of discussions to OGSI-WG is encouraged.
   A copy of the latest version has been made visible on GridForge
   (https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewCategory.php?group_id=43&category_id=340) MS Word format allows choice over visibility
   of comments in case these are relevant to discussion.

3. Reviewing/New material

   Discussion of Jem's comments/questions  on chapter 5:
    - Lifetime of Handles vs lifetime of SDEs - see mailing list for resolution. 
    - Some comments to be answered by Tim: example of ServiceDataValues document, reference to CMM.
    - Jem to continue review/comment on section 5.5 and on.
   
  
    Current Assignements   

    o Section 6-7 Implementations, Tim
    o Section 8 gridService portType & Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Savas Parastadisis
    o Section 9  - 1st Draft complete.  Review/consolidation - Tim.
    o Section 10 - How to create and manage registries -  Abdeselem
    o Section 11 - Factory example. Savas
    o Section 12 - Notification details - Anbazhagan Mani
    o Security Issues, Section 13 - Not assigned
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday December 3rd (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.