Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 15th October 2003. 

Participants:
Adbeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks
Jem Treadwell
Savas Parastatidis
Dave Snelling


Regrets:
Anbazhagan Mani


1. Review of minutes from the call on 8th October.
   No changes needed.


2. Process/management issues and review of GGF meetings

   Jem Treadwell joined the call. He should be given/get access to the Primer Work Space to facilitate review work via the
   .doc versions of the document. 

   The Primer is scheduled to be a reviewable draft by the end of October, with spec authors contributing review comments in November.
   Review of chapters is anticipated as they are completed. 
 
   pdf versions can be used for initial reviews where multiple input is expected. Markup/non-markup versions are
   needed (non-markup for ease of reviewing).

   Tracker items for the OGSI spec should be reviewd for potential input material

   No new versions of the spec are anticipated yet, being dependent on the WSDL 1.2 work, including attributes.

4. Discussion of chapters 6/9 (Using grid Services and Registries)

   Changes were proposed, reordering material from chapter 10. Abdeslem to implement. Next week's call will look
   at the restructured chapters to see what needs to be done next.

    
  Outstanding assignements

    o Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Tim Banks
    o Section 7 gridService portType- Tim Banks (No input needed, making progress) 
    o Section 11 - Notification details - Anbazhagan Mani
    o Sections 6,9 - Service Groups and Registries -  Adbeselem
    o Section 10 - Factories - Savas
    o Security Issues, Section 12 - Not assigned
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday October 22nd (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.