Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 12th November 2003. 

Participants:
Abdeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks
Jem Treadwell
Savas Parastatidis

Regrets:
Anbazhagan Mani
David Snelling


1. Review of minutes from the call on 5th November.
   No changes needed.


2. Reviewing/New material

   Discussion of the meaning of SOA, section 2.3. Jem suggested a reference to a definition. Tim to review and implement


   Discussion of chapter 5 - concepts.Recommended reordering of the subsections which introduce concepts to become:
   Extension/Factory & Instances/Lifetimes/Grid References/Identity/Service Data/Extensibility/Notification/Faults/Basic Services 

   Tim or Savas to implement, followed by review by Abdeslem/Jem and re-review next week.

   
   Assignements

   

    o Section 5, review/comment/update (Jem/TIm/Savas)      
    o Section 6-7 Implementations, Tim
    o Section 8 gridService portType & Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Savas Parastadisis
    o Section 9  - 1st Draft complete.  Review/consolidation - Tim.
    o Section 10 - How to create and manage registries -  Abdeselem
    o Section 11 - Factory example. Savas
    o Section 12 - Notification details - Anbazhagan Mani
    o Security Issues, Section 13 - Not assigned
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday November 19th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.