Minutes of the Conference call to discuss the OGSI Primer on 19th November 2003. 

Participants:
Abdeslem Djaoui
Tim Banks
Jem Treadwell
Savas Parastatidis

Regrets:
Anbazhagan Mani
David Snelling


1. Review of minutes from the call on 12th November.
   Minutes are kept on Gridforge here: 
   https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewCategory.php?group_id=43&category_id=400&language_id=1&sort0=ddate&dir0=1

2. Process/Management
   No responses from authors regarding reviewing.
   Need to re-establish publicity of Primer activities on the ogsi-wg list and post minutes there.


3. Reviewing/New material

   Discussion of comments on chapter 5 following reorganisation:
    - Namespace prefixes in examples - should follow those of the spec. Savas to change globally, Adbeslem to check.     
    - Example of Servicedata semantics using the counter needs modifyable=true. (Tim)
    - Flow is now OK: Jem will review/comment/change. 


    Current Assignements   

    o Section 5, review/comment/update (Jem)      
    o Section 6-7 Implementations, Tim
    o Section 8 gridService portType & Clarify semantics of servicedata/destroy - Savas Parastadisis
    o Section 9  - 1st Draft complete.  Review/consolidation - Tim.
    o Section 10 - How to create and manage registries -  Abdeselem
    o Section 11 - Factory example. Savas
    o Section 12 - Notification details - Anbazhagan Mani
    o Security Issues, Section 13 - Not assigned
    o GridForge tracker items

  
Next call - 4pm UK time, Wednesday November 26th (and weekly thereafter) using the same number (020 7162 2149). No passcode needed.

Agenda: Progress on Assignments/Tracker items, Questions for resolution.