======================================================================
ACS F2F DAY1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: May 23 10:00-18:30 EDT 2005
Location: Northrop Grumman, Washington, D.C.
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Thomas Studwell (IBM)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Sachiko Wada (ASCADE) - minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10:10 Agenda bashing, role call, note taker & time keeper. 
 Self introduction and reorganizing of the time table.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
10:45 ACS Overview & Security 
Guest: Mike Smeltzer
Material: 
  R2AD-v3b(Introduction to the Trusted Software Distribution)(Mike) 
  [https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/acs-wg/document/R2AD-v3b/en/1]
  RelatedActivities (p.11-13)(Mike)
  [https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/acs-wg/document/RelatedActivities/en/1]
Conclusion:
  Our draft won't cover comprehesive topics in security area, but covers only 
  essential topics as the specification.
  We agreed on the scope of responsibilities of ACS specification.
  - The Authentication, Authorization and Accounting issues should be 
    comprehensively covered in OGSA and relevant activitiy outside of ACS-WG.
      ex) How to verify the user and service credentials.
  - ACS should support some mechanisms to assure the integrity of archives.
      ex) signature for tampering detection (and encryption), etc
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
12:20  OASIS SDD TC updates
Material: 
  IUDD Overview (Tom)
  [not registered to the gridforge yet]
Introduction:
 Tom explained about SDD overview and its standardization status.
   - OASIS had approved to establish the SDD-TC.
   - The TC activity will start in early June.
 Relationship to ACS
   - AAF may include additional information to SDD.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
12:50 LUNCH
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
13:40 Re-scheduling
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
13:50 ACS requirements and issues list overview
Material:
  Strawman Requirements description (Keisuke) 
  [https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/acs-wg/document/draft-ggf-acs-req-20050523/en/5]
Conclusion:
  We reviewed each of the requirements description which is to be merged
  into the WG draft spec. In addition, we discussed about the following 
  issues.
 * Distributing repository
    This capability is one effective use case of ACS, but is not mandatory.
    It can be implemented on top of current specification of ACS.
    It need not to be included in the requirements list.
 * Consistency
    ACID property is generally preferable, but it's about the availability 
    and reliability topics of the implementation and is out scope of ACS 
    specification. ACS specification should define a simple specification 
    essential for consistency check of archive.
 * Relationship between jobs and archives
    ACS need not to be aware of the relationship between jobs and archives,
    i.e. which job refers to which archive. Rather it should provide with the 
    external reference to each of archives in the repository. The 
    relationship should be maintained by Job Managers.
 * Versioning
    Version management is needed for each archive and not for each content in 
    the archive. Different versions, such as Version 1.1 and version 1.2,
    should be referenced by different EPRs. Whether the older version is 
    available or not is not concluded. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
16:00 Review of the NAREGI PSE information. (KF; 30 min)
Material:
  NAREGI PSE (NAREGI) 
  [https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/acs-wg/document/NAREGI_PSE/en/1]
Conclusion:
 We reviewed the NAREGI PSE material and gathered questions.
 The questions list was posted to the ML by Keisuke.
   [Tue, 24 May 2005, "Re: [acs-wg] NAREGI PSE material for F2F meeting"]
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
17:20 OGSA roadmap document 
Conclusion:
 - We agreed not to include WSDM as a referenced specification.
   ACS spec. may use WSDM for manageability but it's not functional part of 
   the ACS specification.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
17:45 Requirements discussion (continued)
   See above.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
18:10 Wrap up DAY1 and planning for DAY2
   Rescheduling of the timetable for the next day.
18:30 End of DAY1
