OGSA Interim Meeting #9, 8-10 December 2004
===========================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC) [8,9]
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Abdeslem Djaoui (RL)
  Ian Foster (ANL) [8,9]
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC (ANL))
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Manuel Pereira (IBM) [9 pm]
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Steve Tuecke (ANL) [8,9]
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

On Bridge:
   Susan Malaika (IBM) [9,10]
   Jun Tatemura (NEC) [8,9]

* V1 status review

  - OGSA v1 comments review nearly done
    - Some comments (requirements) not reviewed yet; these are mainly
      wordsmithing.
    - Final revisions of a number of sections (Data, Information,
      Resource Management) done.
    - Waiting for EMS (partially done), Infrastructure, Requirements
      sections; also minor stuff in other sections.

    - Agreed to a separate session to finish v1 comments review; maybe
      a small group of 4-5 people.

  - Glossary
    - Revision almost complete (a couple of points only remaining)
    - Action: Jem to mail out [Done]

  - Target is to get a completely revised version together, post it a
    couple of days before a call; and dedicate a call to review it
    before re-submitting it to the GGF-Editor. Try to get it done by
    Xmas.

  - Comments still welcome

* EGA discussion

  Dave's presentation at EGA / EGEE: "Web Service Grids"
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/WS-Grids/en/1

  [Background]

  - Ongoing discussion at the top level of GFSG and EGA on how to
    collaborate; another meeting this week.
  - EGA not in standards for standards sake. A substantial part of
    their work is also marketing.
  
  [Dave's presentation]

  - [p3] Revise: Dynamic service/resource creation -> 'service' is
    deprecated

  - [p4] 
    - A picture that many people seem to have found useful to help
      understand the area and how the pieces come together
    - Rather than 'different views on same problem domain' it should
      say something along the lines of 'map onto same infrastructure'

  - [p10] (Core services build out)
    - Too much of a management focus ; only certain parts of WSDM may
      be needed between top and bottom layer.

    - eventing (messaging/delivery & format/content)

  - [p20] (Architecture : Status)
    - Information: A lot of activity; probably not entirely a gap ;
      - Action: Abdeslem to follow up with Dave

  - [p13] (Base Profile 1)
    - Embodiment 1 : EPR

  - [p14] (Base Profile 2)
    - WS-Eventing followup: letter sent and waiting for response ;
      moving existing specs closer to it 
    - JSIM was extension proposed by GGF CGS-WG to CIM. Mainly Job
      queue additions; folded in CIM v2.8
    - WS-CIM profiles and protocols, and mapping of schema to xml
      - no modeling work involved
      - current timeline: 
        - set of proposal for January F2F
        - Delivery mid next year perhaps

    Issue: Need to check into WS-CIM and relation (how much it fits
            OGSA profile needs)
    Issue: Glue schema: might be worth revisiting in this context and see if
            extensions could be added to CIM; maybe as an extension to
            CGS-WG (JSIM) activity
            - Glue schema addresses needs of certain group of users
              (mainly academic) not sure if it addresses needs of
              business users
              > (Maybe Fred is the person to take this on initially.)

    Issue: How much does JSDL map into CIM; JSDL does not use
            explicitly the same names for elements. (Names similar and
            probably mappable without too much effort)
            > (Andreas)

    Issue: How to model logical 'constructs' on top of the lower modelling
            layers; e.g., to provide support for schedulers to decide
            where to place jobs etc.

    Issue: Need to figure out how to make decision on whether and how
           much to use CIM; which parts to extend; which parts not to
           use;
          > (Fred was named as one possible candidate to lead this
          > activity)

  - [p15] (Security profile)
    - Perhaps structure differently? Separate base security and
      specific versioning (e.g., WS-I)
    - Audit; UR mentioned but obviously more work needed here
    - Privacy: related to NextGrid work, e.g., medical data

    Comment: Items futher down the list are becoming more abstract; pointing
           to more abstract functionality or functionality at the
           use-case level.

    Issue: Should 'policy' not be included in the base profile
           - policy in specific areas (e.g., security policy) is included.
           - do we need a policy framework?
           - does ws-policy fill this gap?
    Action: Add policy (as a placeholder) for now in these profiles; a gap

    Issue: Need two different 'types' of profiles
           - The long term view of what's needed 
           - The short term view of what can be accomplished based on
             what is out there or what can be expected to be out there
             in the near future.

        - In addition to doing a profile we must also make sure that
          there is sufficient interest and buy-in from major players
          in the components (and in the total result) [To be discussed
          later.]

  - (Core Services Profile)
    - Why UDDI is not included?
      - A recurring question. Too static; not geared for dynamic grid
        like scenarios (e.g., soft state registration) where services
        might not be available indefinitely.
      - Model is that of yellow pages of services for applications
      - Some work to make it more flexible; might be worth reviewing
        it in the future.

    - OGSA-DAI is doing structured access; also need basic file access
      - Posix I/O is a gap
      - GFS doing some of that
    - Not just access to files but also file management and
      replication, and so on.

    - One combination of (emerging) standards that looks as a
      plausible first step:
      - JSDL to describe job for submission; WS-Agreement to
        instantiate it; WSDM to manage it

    - VO management: EGEE VOMS as a fairly widely adopted example to
      look into.
      - UK e-Science also adopting it.
      - OMII, NMI

    - Self-management: 
      - CDDLM is mentioned but its scope is not that wide (mainly the
        deployment aspect)

* OGSA use case & EGR hand-over

  - Is 'Enterprise' smaller than Grids?
    - Hence smaller than OGSA's focus, so it would make sense to keep
      some of the use cases in OGSA?
    - What happens with non-business grid use cases?
    - EGR scope seems quite large ('enterprise' is also not well
      defined); group is not against covering non-business use cases
      too.

  - EGR is more than use cases; also requirements analysis

  - A revised/re-done use case document would probably be identified
    as an EGR document.

  - What is the process for getting back use cases or requirements
    from the use cases?
    - Still undecided; the collecting process is main focus now

  - OGSA-WG not the only group; EGR is also trying to collect use
    cases from other groups.

  - Would still need to do requirements analysis in OGSA-WG if the
    schedules do not match well. 
    - (And the EGR work might take time to start up.)  

  - It's likely that EGA will also publish its use cases. EGR should
    probably then (be ready to) tackle those too.

  - Proposal: Give use cases documents to EGR and receive requirements
    analysis 
    - It is not clear yet what form the requirements analysis will
      take. Or the timing.
    - No objections to this proposal. 

  - Next step is to put the proposal out on the list and make sure
    that there is consensus. (>Hiro)
  - Ravi to send  mail to EGR

* Survey template / review

  - Purpose of survey: 
    - Get feedback on what's considered important; use as part of
      determining what OGSA-WG should focus on next.
    - [Identify the areas that are more mature or there is more
      expertise]
    - Also determine what things people are willing to work on; and
      gauge the level of support

  - [Side discussion on what work should be done in OGSA vs what work
    should be done in other spec focused groups. (For later
    discussion.)]

  - Review of surveys: The following groups/projects provided initial
    surveys (snapshots): Globus, Unigrids, Business Grid, Distributed
    Command and Control (DC2I), EGEE, OMII, OGSA-DAI, Intel, NEC.
    [Note: Since the surveys are incomplete they are not available on
    gridforge yet.]

  - Summary
    - Requirement for a stable (sub)set of standards to build on
     (within the context of an architecture)
    - Even when projects are not directly involved in OGSA there is an
      interest to at least co-ordinate/collaborate to (varying)
      extents
    - Main interest is EMS and Data. In EMS, JSDL and WS-Agreement are
      the ones most referred to. WSDM is also often mentioned.
      - Some projects not choosing WS-Agreement yet because of
        specification complexity.
   - Backward compatibility as a requirement (at spec level as well)
     - Difficulty of reasoning about equivalence ; initially in ogsi
       but removed due to complexity
   
   - Preliminary summary of surveys:
    https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/survey-summary-200412-snapshot/en/1

  - Review of survey template (and how to improve it)
    - Some confusion about what information to include and
      where.
    - Some responses related to OGSA were answered about GGF instead;
      should revise questionnaire for clarity.
    - 'Involvement' in OGSA-WG specifically and not in any of the
      related WGs; make this clearer.
    - Also important to identify not those just attending but also
      those supporting OGSA

* OGSA version 2 process discussion

  [Note: The final consensus is summarized in the following
  documents.
  
  1. https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/Profile_proposal/en/1
  2. https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/ProfileTemplate/en/1
  3. https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/next_step_slides_at_2004dec_f2f/en/1

  The minutes are a summary of the discussion leading to this
  consensus.]

  - Discussion material: "Defining the Open Grid Services
    Architecture"
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/defining-ogsa/en/1

  - Dave S gave an explanation on the genesis of the document
    - Note that this is a an early draft / work in progress
    - The initial document was done by Ian, Steve T, Mark Linesch,
      following a discussion between Dave S and Mark.
    - It was circulated to Hiro, Andrew, and Dave S and modified;
      released in time for F2F. No consensus yet. It is not yet
      intended for public consumption (i.e., outside the OGSA-WG).
    - It is intended as contribution to improve the OGSA definition
      process (WG process), or (a more extreme view) as input to
      re-chartering the WG. (In the latter case, the GFSG would also
      have to be consulted.)

  - Ian gave an overview of the document
    - Two concerns:
      - OGSA'S effect on world (GGF position as its main output); what
        OGSA-WG should do
        - What OGSA tells people. In particular generating normative
          material has been quite slow.
        - Profiles as an idea to satisfy the need for more normative
          description; and make talking about compliance possible.
      - What OGSA should not do
        - How far architecture and its definition should go
        - Top-down definition of interfaces in detail vs the risk that
          doing so may alienate some people who may not recognize
          OGSA'S authority to specify this area.

    - Globus consortium role: as supporting the OGSA profile adoption

  - Discussion was led by Dave S under a fairly strict process. (Must
    have permission before speaking.)

  - Pointed out that there are both controversial issues but also a
    lot of ground for agreement.
    - Identify issues: which ones we agree on, which ones we don't and
      what we do about them

** Issue: OGSA needs something normative soon.
** Issue: OGSA is not doing normative specification work today.
** Issue: OGSA should provide Leadership to the Grid community.

  - General agreement that it is important to make normative progress
    on what OGSA is in the next 12 months in order to satisfy the
    desire of the community for this definition.
    - The big question is how do we proceed to this goal.
    - (Without necessarily disagreeing on the need for longer term
      work since we might not get it right the first time.)
    - (It is not necessary that all the development is within OGSA-WG;
      should also participate in other related efforts)

  - Argued over the difference between 'normative' and 'standard'
    - 'Standard' meaning something widely adopted is what Ian & Steve
      want to see happen with the profiles.

    - In contrast the OGSA architecture documents are informational to
      start off with and over time become slowly normative as space is
      more refined.
    - OGSA may not provide normative description; provide definition
      of problem; while the normative work is done elsewhere.

** Issue: Role of OGSA and OGSA design teams and whether they should lead the
   identification of new standards work or not.
** Issue: How do we discover gaps?

   More specifically whether the design teams produce just informative
   documents or something more binding. And does the output of a
   design team automatically becomes 'OGSA' and who decides.

  - Clarified that a design team is an informal way for people to work
    within OGSA-WG on a topic of common interest. 
    - Any document produced has to be vetted by the group as a whole
      before (and if) released as the group's output (open process).
      - A draft does not have to be accepted by the WG
      - Drafts may look like 'real' documents but are not until
        released by the group as a whole. They are meant to move the
        discussion forward.
    - The group (and by implication the design teams) only produce
      informative documents.
    - Normative documents are done by other WGs (so if a design team
      wants to produce a normative spec they would have to form a new
      WG per GGF process). 
    - There may be a lot of interaction with other WGs as well.

  - [There is a perception that people in OGSA-WG do not work on
    normative specs but only high level architecture. It is incorrect
    because many people work on different things at the same time; and
    some of those efforts (in other groups) are not on
    architecture. But work on normative specs is in other WGs.]

  - Not implying that design team work is not necessary; but that the
    aim should be more tightly scoped.

** Issue: Do profiles address the need for a normative approach? 
** Issue: We need a process by which profiles are selected.
** Issue: OGSA should do both Bottom up and/xor Top down work.
** Issue: Bottom's up specification works fine without a top down design.
** Issue: Normative documents cannot be developed in a top down approach.
** Issue: Design teams are required to integrate input from the rest
   of the community.
** Issue: What is the role of information documents?

  - Profiles as a means of identifying how a number of specs can be
    used together and provide a way for achieving compliance.

  - Profiles per se are not an issue; how to get to them is. (For
    example, is the drive to define them top-down or bottom-up.)

  - The pattern proposed/assumed so far: A design team identifies a
    gap; scopes the activity; maps work to something in progress; and
    influences the direction of standards work to fit the gap.
    - Working on this kind of 'loop' the final step is to incorporate
      the result in the proposed idea of profile
    - The key is the scoping activity; stay concrete in order to be
      effective.

  - Doing work on architecture is useful to identify what is needed
    but is not there, and kick off related efforts.
    - RSN was put forward as an example of such activity being carried
      out by OGSA design teams.  A gap (Naming) was identified from
      high level analysis. There was an existing draft spec that did
      not fulfill all requirements. Adjustments were made to make sure
      that things would fit together.

  - Even if the focus on profile definition is bottom up there would
    still be some (implicit) model in mind. If this model is not
    identified then there is a danger of just ending up with laundry
    list of stuff.

  - This identified one major area of disagreement. Other people
    believe that it is unlikely that a shared view of the space can be
    agreed on in advance. Each party may have a view on this space but
    they may not be willing to share it.

  - And bottom up work would offer more flexibility and allow for
    incremental validation.

  - Agreed that profiles are normative and informed by 'architecture'
    informative documents and that consistency is two ways. Profiles
    could feedback into the information document and vice versa.
    - OGSA-WG (somehow) makes sure they are consistent with each
      other.
    - Cannot make prescriptive statements on how the consistency is
      achieved.

** Issue: We need a definition of profiles.
** Issue: The bar for inclusion of a spec in a normative profile is very high.
** Issue: We need a definition of normative (boolean?).
** Issue: What is profile refinement?

  - What is the point that something becomes 'normative OGSA'? (And
    hence making it in a profile.) A continuum of...
    - when a design team comes up with something
    - when a WG produces a specification
    - when implementations exist
    - ...

  - Ian, Steve: The point is far towards the end when there is
    adoption and implementation experience; only then can it be added
    to a profile.

  - But drawing the line too far towards implementation would probably
    hinder adoption (noone will adopt something until it is part of a
    profile)

  - Candidate profiles as a way of allowing more experimentation.

  - How can work proceed; is it possible to do it in the current
    design teams?
    - Not to the point of profiles; candidate profiles perhaps. But
      even that seems difficult to 'commit' to right now.

    - Profiles as restrictions on existing standard specifications
      (typically do not define new standards)

  - Define what is a profile: an information document
  - Define the process of creating a profile: an information document

  - Are profiles information or normative? 
    - Recommendation proposals initially
    - If after the fact, might be community practice instead
    - Candidate profiles are probably information document (see below)

    - Different types of profiles
      - (Infrastructure) Base profile refers to infrastructure
      - (Service) Candidate profiles are service profiles
      - (Application) User scenario profiles that capture what users what to do

    - What is the difference between 'candidate profile' and
      'profile'?

    - Proposal: 
      - Profile can only include finished specs ; have gone through
        process or are *perceived* to be stable and widely adopted
      - Candidate profile includes specs that have not been
        (completely) through that process but are perceived that they
        fill a need ; are (almost) complete ;

  Action: Dave to do a first draft to try and define profile, and
          different profile types. Put on the agenda for a next call.

** Issue: OGSA trademark

  - What does it mean to be OGSA compliant?
  - Is OGSA version 2.0 informative or not? And does an information
    document define compliance in some way? 
    - No and no.

** Proposal: (To split off profile work into different WG); OGSA-WG
   does not produce a normative architecture document; normative
   statements only in profile documents.
    - And acknowledge that it is possible to adhere to a profile
      (and therefore be compliant) and potentially not meet the
      entire (informational) architecture
    - But generally it would/should not be possible to be
      orthogonal to the architecture document
    - Initial 'profile' work is done in OGSA-WG to some extent
      and then split off (it is not to the detailed level that
      included compliance statements)
    - And change the name of the 'architecture' document to a
      'concepts' or something else

** Proposal: Form a design team to do profiles with first task to
   define what a profile is (and what is not in a profile might be in
   the roadmap document)
     - Don't split into separate working groups at this time
       (ref: GGF re-org.)
     - 'Candidate profiles' as things that go in a roadmap
       document
     - Different types of profiles; 'service profiles' that are
       top down or high level and technology ones that build
       bottom up.

    - Should security be part of the base profile or a different
      profile?
    
    - Proposal to include naming in the base profile
    - Not sure if security fits here

    - Review of profiles, schedules and solicit volunteers.

    - Proposal to do part of the next f2f as parallel working sessions
      for design teams working on profiles

* Naming team report

  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/ws-naming-design-team-report/en/1

** Review of status
   - Regular bi-weekly calls.
   - Minutes are on gridforge.
   - Write up is available on gridforge (minus latest work)
   - Naming here focuses on the bottom two layers of 
    (human - logical - physical)
   - (Thinking of de-focusing from 'Name' format to resolution)

   - Difference between name resolution and reference resolution?

   Action: Tom to send to OGSA-WG ml a reference to the renewable
   reference document submitted to the WSRF TC

** Naming requirements draft walkthrough
    - Name and identity separated
    - Comparable - lexical comparison (equality only)
    - No aliases allowed
    - A name cannot act as an identity (no crypto connection in
      current draft)
    - (How to isolate the requirement that identity and address are
      separate. (ref: RR))

   Action: Andrew will do a revision based on last review. 
   - By Monday; Dave is planning to use this document as input
     for an on-going discussion in the WSRF TC call

** RNS
   - Main focus is on upper 2 layers; can also map to 3rd layer
    (human - logical - physical)
   - (Re-factored from a filesystem specific proposal; still has some
     remnants of that work; being worked through)
   - Human-readable perhaps should be more correctly called
     'human-choosable'
   - Logical name (chosen by the system)
   - Address reference (the document might still mention data
     references occasionally)
   - Will pull out the resource properties that are specific to data
     entities (still in the document)
   - Operations defiend are on the names and not the resources pointed
     to
   - Working implementation of the specification

   Proposed target: Review and scope down/focus specification. Try to
    get a couple (or three) implementations (e.g., IBM, UVa,
    perhaps JAIST) by GGF13.
   
   Specification work is done within GFS-WG and interaction with
   OGSA-WG via Data design team). Considered (and rejected) forming a
   new group.

* Apollo/Hermes/Muse Apache projects

  Jem announced that three new Apache projects have been started by HP
  and the Globus team to develop implementations of WSRF, WSN and WSDM
  MUWS.  The projects are named Apollo (WSRF), Hermes (WSN) and Muse
  (MUWS); all three are currently in the incubation stage.  At
  present, the Muse project includes an implementation of MUWS 0.5,
  including elements of WSRF and WSN, while Apollo and Hermes are
  unpopulated.  Work is under way to make Muse a MUWS 1.0
  implementation (targeted for March '05), and to remove the WSRF and
  WSN code from that project. Apollo and Hermes will be populated with
  WSRF and WSN code contributed by Globus and HP.
        
  Anyone interested in these projects is asked to get involved by
  visiting the project web sites, joining discussions on the mailing
  lists, and if possible contributing to the development effort.  See
  Jem's message at
  http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2004/12/msg00023.html
  (http://tinyurl.com/6tvk8) for more info, including links to the
  projects.

* EMS team report

  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/ems-design-team-report/en/1

** Update
  
  - Participation has improved. Currently trying to work through
    terminology problems. There are a lot of open issues. Ravi started
    an issues list for discussion.

  - Attempt to work through terminology issues resulted in revision of
    terminology: Actor, Solution, etc. A strawman was put together by
    Andrew, Mark and Chris. There are many similarities to ACS.  In
    the simplest case there is no need to install anything. A slightly
    more complicated case might involve a copy/ftp to the resource
    before starting it up.

  - Recognize need to get more concrete.

  - JSDL is probably one of the pieces; and after EMS refinement may
    end up with more requirements. EMS is not at that point yet
    though. JSDL focus is much narrower than EMS so it is not
    appropriate to try and take the EMS work there.

  - How (and by when) to get a more concrete EMS specification,
    perhaps a strawman?
    - It is possible to do a draft within a small group; might not be
      representative.
    - A F2F might be more productive to push this process forward.
      - Would like to get the right people to the table but realize
        that it might not be high enough on everyone's list of
        priorities.
      - Identify the relevant WGs vs draft a discrete specification
        and try to get the right players; a balancing act between
        top-down and bottom-up.
    - In any case require coordination across a number of WGs to get
      to interoperability in this area.

* Data team report

  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/data-design-team-report/en/1

** Status
   - Lots of involvement. The base architecture is based on EGEE and
     DAIS
   - Lots of interested parties:
     - (gridftp is listed but might not fit in with the architecture)
  - Links to EMS
    - Long running operations: do not fit the normal model of
      execution (i.e., stage in; exec; stage out). More of an
      invocation style with results received incrementally.
    - Data produced by computation
  - Data stories
    - A lot of discussion on metadata; metadata (logically of)
      resource vs other

  - GLite: EGEE data services
    - Posix I/O is mentioned but is it needed? (the implication is
      that it is legacy)
      - Posix I/O simple subset to support basic file access
      - More correctly to call it a posix-like API

  - Data management (file replication)
    - Strawman architecture. It is in very early stages, for comment.
    - Need to think about what should be optimized and design for that
      first.

  - Data story: Maintain replica of file
    - Looking at it top-down
    - Lots of holes/gaps;

  - Data story: Federated data service
    - Definition of federation: 
    - Purpose: update, query or both. But probably mainly for querying

  - Engaged WGs, scenarios for data, some ideas on what exists still
    issues on metadata
  - Architectural strawman needs more work

* Infrastructure 'team' status

  - WS-Addressing: Submission and WG started in W3C. Very aggressive
    schedule.
    - Probably only minor issues 
    - Expected delivery: January/February time scale
  - WSRF:
    - No controversial issue with respect to WS-Addressing at the
      moment
    - Interop document nearly ready to come out of design team
    - Metadata document; optional properties about resource element:
      OGSI like mutability, default values, etc.
      - Targeted to resource type
      - Issue how to exchange metadata:
        - Metadataexchange or define a special resource property
    - IBM submission for RR
      - Andrew's feedback desired by Monday's call (WSRF)
    - serviceGroup: needs more work to define more clearly
      - Already in use by WSDM
    - F2F planned for January/February 2005
    
    - Documents coming out in January:
      - Resource property
      - Lifetime
      - Base faults
    - Interop: not scheduled yet; to be based on committee drafts

    - WSDM committee draft came out and is dependent on an older draft
      of WSRF; not sure how it will be resolved after the WSRF draft
      comes out.

    - WS-N base notification and topics are probably needed for basic
      functionality; (resource property update)
      - Brokered notification is useful too; maybe use only a subset
        of it in profiles; or scoped to use specific functionality

* Next F2F

  Planning for beginning of Feb (1-2) or week of Feb 20. Hiro will
  send out a questionnaire.