OGSA F2F Minutes - Sep 3-4, 2003
================================

* 1-1) Early Discussion

  Assignment of minute takers (D. Snelling, A. Savva)

* Participants

  Shel Finkelstein (SUN)
  Ian Foster (Argonne National Lab)
  Andrew Grimshaw (U of Virginia & Avaki) 
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)                
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)                   
  Takuya Mori (NEC)                       
  Inderpal Narang (IBM)
  Jeffrin Von Reich (HP)                  
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)                 
  Frank Siebenlist(Argonne National Lab)  
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)                 
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)                
  Jay Unger (IBM)                         
  James Warnes (IBM)
  Ming Xu (Platform)

* Announcement of GGF IP Policy

* Minutes of late teleconference: no comments - approved.

* Agenda Bashing and AOB:

- Call for discussion of
   - Feedback to GFSG about the proposed Provisioning(HP) & Business
     Computing(IBM) BoFs
   - WSDM/CMM Interface
   - Discussion of use of OGSA tag (branding)
   - Web Services convergence with OGSA.
   - Web Services convergence with OGSI.
   - Discussion of instance vs context approach.

Resolved: All agree to use OGSI concepts (mapped to OGSI terminology)
          with the understanding that these concepts may shift over
          time.  See "Visual Tour of OGSA".

    Comment: The idea is to separate concepts (OGSI/OGSA) clearly and
             focus on upper layers. A lot of the stuff (handles,
             serviceGroup, etc) in OGSI are used further up as is. If
             there is re-definition of these terms it will affect the
             upper levels. One idea is to define the upper layers
             using OGSI concepts and not the specific terminology used
             in OGSI v1.

(re-)Resolved: To start a concepts table/glossary. 
         - HK made a first definition for some program execution
           terms.
         - Identify other terms during discussion; get definitions
           from group.
         - Owners: AG (& RS)

Resolved: High level concepts to ogsi terminology mapping
          - Owners: JU, DS, SF

    Comment: One idea was to do a primer that describes general
             OGSI concepts and presents the current OGSI spec as one
             realization of these concepts.

* 1-4) Review of Program Execution

Review of MX's and RS's drafts.

Need a set of assumptions about the hosting environment. Also need to
identify those concepts that need to be addressed and by which working
groups in GGF.

Assumptions:

   - Entities (jobs, executables, data sets, ...) need to be
     virtualized (i.e. have a GSH).

   - Also many implicit assumptions have to be exposed: e.g., talking
     about filepaths might imply a global filesystem, and so on.

Resolved: Meet outside the F2F to discuss the details. AG took down
          names and will setup calls (using HP/Intel/? teleconf
          facilities).
    Key output: Basic abstractions and assumptions.

    Comment: The idea of forming sub-groups in order to brainstorm
             (possibly with other related groups) before the GGF came
             up a number of times. See also logging.

<Check list>
1. Is Level of detail correct?
2. High level architectural review

   - Job: Possibly a hierarchical concept(*), named (GSH). There is a
          leaf concept. The Job can be managed.

          (*)See RS's categorization [Workload[Job[Task[Tasklets]]]]

   - Resource Requirements for a Job - Part of the Job. Possibly
     without GHSs.

   - Resource Providers - Wrapped as services with GSHs advertising
     themselves.

   - Resource Provisioning - ???

   - Scheduler - ??? Uses reservations and brokers?

   - Policy and access control. 

   - Delegation management/restriction.

   - ....

3. Identify what are mandatory or optional
4. Do we agree on list of service descriptions?
5. Identify missing piece

   - Related groups: jsdl, drmaa, cmm, ... ?
   - Legacy code and its relation to ogsa
   - Access control should be addressed
   - Required access rights must be described as part of job
     description
   - Including delegation (restricted credentials)
   - ...

* 1-2) GridForge best practice discussion

  - Need trackers that can capture the relevant email list discussion.
  - Need a bulk download mechanism --- personal copy for offline
    access.

Not fully resolved, yet.

  - Emails that just includes pointers complicates the replication
    problem. On the other hand, large attachments are generally not
    appreciated.

  - Why isn't there an "[ogsa-wg]" in the subject to make filtering
    easier? (Did IF get an action to look into it?)

* Terminology     

** Do we need the term "Platform"?

Resolved: Drop "Platform" from this document. Add a note in the
          document that elsewhere OGSA should be used as an adjective.

** What are the core services?

Resolved: Don't think about what are core services now, but
          acknowledge that they exist and will (hopefully) fall out as
          a result of the processes.

* Is it services or interfaces? 

(re-)Resolved: We describe services (mostly in terms of function,
          semantics, organization, and interactions) and leave the
          interface definition to the working groups that will develop
          them in detail.

   Comments:
        - Do part of the factoring (mainly for initial guidance) but
          undersatnd that more detailed work may later cause changes.
        - Protocols must also figure here and how to make sure that
          things actually work together.

   Glossary:     
        - "interface" here is used in the WSDL 1.2 sense.


* 2-2) Data services in section 5.2 discussion

Because OGSA Data Services relies on WS-Agreement, there was a long
discussion on the IP background of WS-Agreement, in particular its use
and reference to WS-Policy.

Action: Jay to push (GRAAP-WG) to 'clean' WS-Agreement, in the sense
        that it does not use the WS-Policy framework for its terms.
        E.g., instead use some equivalent term framework.

Jay provided a summary of key issues with respect the data services. 
   - Naming through instances.
   - Specialized portTypes for various access mechanisms.
   - The service instance concept is probably required.
   - OGSA relationship mgmt refers to CMM (probably).
   - Used to include virtualization of multiple sources; it was taken
     out. (Federation is still in.)
   - Discussion of policy resolution (decidability). Conclusion - it
     is hard.

Resolved: The current language could be a bit more abstract, but this
          is not necessary. (Owner is still IF.)

* 2-1) Review Core services in section

** ServiceDomain, Service composition, orchestration, workflow

Options:

   - OGSI in the workflow - BP for composition
   - Build on or modify BP to meet OGSA needs
   - Proceed in parallel with a composition analysis group.

   Comments: "OGSI in the workflow" means that OGSI is used as an
             implementation platform for BP. OGSI constructs (e.g.,
             gsh/gsr) are not visible, however.

Resolved: Assess what our requirements are and put them in the
          document.  Don't explicitly state our approach at this
          stage.  Highlight issues that need to be considered:
          e.g. dynamic runtime vs. static "compile" time composition;
          instance and state composite state; is a composed GS a GS?

Continue to work this issue.

** Handle resolution

Resolved: Issues we need to address in OGSA:
          Boot strap, cross gsh scheme (and VO) registration,
          resolution caching.

  Comments:
   - Resolver caches as first class citizens (of architecture)
     - I.e., have names, are GS, etc
     - How is it different from saying the resolver is built as a
       cache? E.g., introduce semantics that let you tell the cache
       what are bad mappings so you don't see them (again).

       - Invalidation is already in OGSI (see exclusion set).

   - Scalability because we expect a huge number of service instances.
     - But a service might only talk with services close to it;
       implies a small(er) number.

   - Gateways between grid systems (e.g., VOs) using different handle
     schemes. The client shouldn't care about the gsh scheme of the
     handle it wants to resolve.

   - Many of these things also came up in past OGSI-WG meetings.

** VO

Key features of a VO:
   - A VO provides a membership assertion authority 
     (VO is like a CA?)
   - Optional factory
   - It is a Registry (specialization of serviceGroup)
   - Bidirectional-references to members
       - Forward links are reliable; back pointers are not necessarily
         reliable.
       - Links rather than a separate db/entity that maintains the
         'back' links.
       - Links might cross organizational boundaries.

   - VOs of VOs are possible
     - Note to JU: VO hierarchical need.  (And possibly overlapping
       at the physical layer. Also interested in meta-data about VOs.)

   - VO can be a type of "context" for requests

     Comment: Role of VOs in the context of agreements. (What is/can
              be delegated?)

Resolved: Membership need not be agreed jointly by the VO and the
          member.

Resolved: VOs (or members thereof) can delegate authorization rights
          to parent VOs. Propagation of rights may be prohibited by
          members.

Note that membership may be contingent on agreement to certain policy
agreements.

   Comment: Have to also consider what happens when the VO changes
            some part of its policy. May need all members to agree
            before changes can be accepted.

Resolved: We will need additional artifacts so that VOs support a
          strong trust concept.

Resolved: It is NOT necessary to add functionality to the GSH naming
          scheme to support VOs.

   Comment: There is a desire to be sure that when you get a name it
            really refers to the 'right' thing (secure name). But we
            may be mixing authentication and identity. Also if you put
            a public key in name (so the name carries some proof) then
            key rollover (if your key is compromised) is tough.

Resolved: We do NOT want to factor a VO into its bag part (registry?)
          and the trust model. This will be done by the WG that takes
          this up.

Resolved: The VO MUST include: GSH plus a set of security bits to make
          the implementation of a membership authority possible.  The
          VO MAY contain other information.

Proposal: It must be possible to decorate a VO with policy.

Proposal: Create and add/remove are separate operations.

Proposal: There needs to be a portType on member service instances to
          describe their memberships in a VO. This is optional, but
          recommended.

    Comment:
      - Does this separate portType only contain serviceData or does
        it also contain operations?
      - How do you manage the membership content?

Action: Identify which WG is going to solve all the problems we can't
        do today!!

   Comments: 
     - Should we have a separate session for VOs in GGF9?
     - VO work is still in early stages. Should there be a GGF9
       session?

** Security

Rejected: The picture should be deleted. It is expected to appear
          again in the documents from the working groups.

Resolved: The picture should remain, but with more elaboration in the
          text and how the security aspects are used in other parts of
          the architecture. Emphasize and distinguish grid specifics.

   Comment: No trust relationhip may be the big difference between
            grid & traditional environments.

Resolved: Security interactions should be part of the
          architecture. But the mechanisms and protocols are outside
          the architecture.

** Discovery

New text added by Ian is OK.

Action: But more detail is needed. Make sure that both GSH to Info and
        Info to GSH functions are supported.

Resolved: There needs to be a framework to integrate the propagation
          and/or searching of information in the discovery process.

Resolved: May be extended by the VO concept.

  Comment: index (meta-data) perhaps also associated with a VO

Is this a Registry?

** Metering & Accounting, Logging, Messaging & Queueing, Events, Fault
   detection/management

Presentation by JW.
  - support for legacy logger: both for wrapping and for native
    access.
  - micro-second access to logs (if you directly coupled)

Do we really need logging at the Grid level? Several good answers
supporting a yes answer.

    - E.g, wide area logging is important, debugging, etc. 

Comments: 
  - Logging code points --- where you can plugin logs transparently to
    the application/requestor.
    - And an admin i/f to control how/when pick log events.

  - Distinguish between static & dynamic logging events
    - static: Subscribe to them explicitly
    - dynamic: A call made into the service triggers logging events to
      be sent to the caller.
    - Might also want a combination of the two.

  - Common set of mechanisms/events for a number of related services
    (logging, metering/accounting, etc.)

Key Requirement Categories:
   - Generation:
   - Propagation:
   - Collection (Virtualization):
   - Processing:

Channels:
   - Data/Event
   - Control

Task: What is the set of services/mechanisms needed to address all the
      above efficiently?

Action: AG do draft on events. 
Action: JW to setup subgroup - Interested: AG, DS, JVR, RS, FS....

* 4-2) GGF9 session preparation

** GGF9 session plan, Preparation for GGF9 session, Decide which
   groups to invite

Action: HK and chairs of DRMAA to decide in to which session to work
        in DRMAA.
 
  Comment: It is unclear how DRMAA fits in to OGSA. Is it an API to
           the grid or is it an API to a DRM that is wrapped by a grid
           service? Hence the problem of where (and to a certain
           extent, if) to invite them.

Resolved: Ask the visiting WGs to:
   - Look at the OGSA document, particularly the section we think
     applies to their working group and present their reaction to the
     meeting.
   - Talk to us about how their work fits into OGSI, OGSA, and 
     Service Oriented Architecture.
   - Is our draft understanding of the work in your service area
     complete, consistent, concepts, ...?
   - Highlight and mismatches they see.
   - Present/discuss for about 15 Minutes at the OGSA session.
   - Expect 10 minutes discussion.

Action: Hiro/Dave - Mail to chairs of named working groups.

Action: Hiro - Add Grid file systems R/W-G to the session 2.

** Discussion of use of OGSA tag (branding)

Resolved: The following constitute an OGSA (brand) compliant GGF WG:
   1) Demonstrate that they were operating within the OGSI framework.
   2) The work needs to fit (plug point) into the Open Grid Services
      Architecture as defined by our document.
   3) From a process perspective, they engage actively with us and
      other OGSA related working group - contribute use cases, etc.
   4) Use OGSA as an adjective. 

Resolved: At GGF9 present the above ideas in each session as part of
          the "branding" process.

** Installation & deployment (or Provisioning/Business Grid BoFs)

There will be installation and deployment (boot strapping, mother
factories, trust roots, interoperating grids, evolution of grids
(change management and versioning), migration) etc in the
architecture, but it is not clear how to fit it all in at this time.

Note that life cycle management (including dismantling) is addressed
in the abstract by CMM/WSMF.

The workflow constructs for other parts of the architecture may be
used here.

Two BoFs are scheduled for GGF9 around this topic (HP & IBM
driven). OGSA-WG has been asked to comment.

Action: HK to tell the steering committee that we see some overlap in
        the proposals. The overlap appears in provisioning and
        deployment and a combined BoF in this area from both groups
        would be a good idea. The wider scope of the Business Grid
        proposal seems to overlap with many other groups (e.g. OGSA),
        which will make the focus difficult to determine.

Action: AG to send out a reference to the configuration management
        dissertation again.

** Problem determination

Action: Add support to the architectural framework for the self-*
        features. There are many capabilities needed to support this.

** Policy & Agreements

Postponed. We need to know what a policy is. We need some examples.

  Comments: 
    - This is a research problem; not clear how to generalize. In
      other words we do not have enough to build a framework.
    - Agreement terms might offer examples.
    - Policy based system >HP.

Resolved: Also talk to GRAAP (Ohio, Oct 6 @ 12:00-13:30) and the
          Policy RG.

* 4-3) Review use case document (60min)

     - Discussion on Working group use cases completion and
       assignments - 5 min
     - Verification of use case deliverables for GGF9 - 15 min
     - Review and discussion on the new use cases presented so far (to
       be continued after face to face ) - 40 min

Request for 30 minutes on the next conference call. 

Actions: Update UCs to v2 format. Write missing text and ask for
         comments from original authors.
         - "RealityGrid" - DS
         - "P2P"  - AS
         - "Persistent Archive" - TM

* AOB 

- Call for discussion of
   - Feedback to GFSG about the proposed Provisioning(HP) & Business
     Computing(IBM) BoFs - Done (See ** Installation & deployment (or
     Provisioning/Business Grid BoFs))
   - WSDM/CMM Interface - Skip and pass to CMM/WSDM meeting.
   - Discussion of use of OGSA tag (branding) - Done

** WS & OGSA/I

   - Web Services convergence with OGSA.
   - Web Services convergence with OGSI.

The WS world has the same problem as OGSA with respect to branding
plus IP issues, e.g. WS-*.

Actions for OGSI-WG: Look for "faults" in WS proposals with respect to
OGSI, e.g. WS-Addressing.

  Comments:
    - WSDL 1.2 is probably going to be a watershed event when it comes
      out (perhaps early spring 2004).
    - Hopefully a 'body' of work will come out at the time/by then.
    - Might trigger a 2.0 ogsi spec.

**  Discussion of instance vs context approach.

Postponed.

* Adjourned.

