
OGSA-Authz at GGF9
==================

DC=David Chadwick; AIM=Andrew McNab; RL=Rebekah Lepro; VW=Von Welch; 
FS=Frank Siebenlist; MT=Mary Thompson; ML=Markus Lorch

Welome, GGF IP, Agenda bashing (5 minutes)
------------------------------------------

VW introduced the group. 

Update on SAML, XACML activities - Rebekah Lepro (10 miniutes)
--------------------------------------------------------------

RL has participated in these groups. No slides. Straw poll of audience:  
~50% knew what SAML and XACML are. ~25% knew difference and how to work
together (sort of.) Active work in SAML and XACML communities about how
the two can work together. Mary's document will talk about reps. of
attributes. SAML is another way to pass things around. SAML very open on
what you do with info. XACML provides this:  specific on decisions made
with information, but open on how you get it.  Don't always match up 100%.
They are putting lots of time into this now, with the face to face
meetings.

SAML: has discussed format of attribute. What about metadata? eg Issuer. 
How to represent SAML attribute in XACML policy? Also how to get info to 
XACML in the SAML framework. Seems that in several systems that process is 
the same, even if implementation is different. VW and FS and others 
discussing this in Grid contexts.

No questions.

OGSA Authorization Policy: First steps - Frank Siebenlist ( 10 minutes)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

FS: one slide. "Still vaporware spec". Trying to leverage XACML 2.0 work. 
FS has been involved in XACML 2.0 work. Long list of requirements, some of 
them influenced by our Grid requirements. (Delegation of policy admin, 
pushing of policy, combining on policy etc.)

Doc shouldn't be XACML specific, but helps to work off and existing 
language.

FS will post pointer to ogsa-authz list of requirements list of XACML 2.0 
group, including ~50% that are Grid influenced.

Questions: if not specifying XACML, what are you doing? FS: enumerating
features that are required: eg delegation, pushing policies down wire.  
Easier if have a language to make this concrete.

MT question: MT tried to think of requirements at higher level, but need 
language to really make that concrete. 

VW: make requirements a GGF document? FS: too temporary?? DC: lists still 
valid even if accepted. FS will post pointers to webpages about this.

AM: also worth defining a set of XACML we actually recommend people
implement: all, some, different subsets? That's what implementors actually
need for interoperability.

VW: yes, but keep separate from any GGF requirement document.

FS: I will have two slides next time!

OGSA Authorization Requirements and Interface Status and Issues - Von 
Welch (15 minutes)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

VW's slides. Two issues outstanding in doc. Multistage authz, "simple 
response" (ie yes/no.) Both deprecated in SAML 1.1, since use ReplyWith 
attribute. Multi stage is very complicated.

Author's proposal: remove multi-stage from doc. In SAML/XACML reqs lists, 
so will solve this for us? (hopefully) We will contribute to solution in 
OASIS.

Leave "simple response" in document, since important and does not 
complicate document (find another way to do it), will follow SAML work on 
this (since they realise this too.)

RL: there are very valid use-cases of SAML, which they are aware of, so 
may reappear in a future (2.0?) version??

Question: for interfaces, what's your plan. VW: plan is WSDL port type of 
authz service, answering authz decision requests. RL: need to think about 
bindings, and compliance with SAML spec. eg defined for HTTP, but need to 
follow process for other uses of it. VW: writing WSDL spec of this will be 
non-trivial.

Question: better not to restrict to SAML? use flexible port types instead?  
VW:  goal isn't to prescribe SAML, but to say how to use it if you do. 

DC:  other thing is reqs doc - so you could take reqs doc and implement
somthing. 

Question: is there binding of SAML for HTTP? (Yes) Is there is req for
SAML to be of specific MIME type? What about plugins in std browsers
responding to this? AM: this is a bit like Java applet auth modules for
use with portals. VW: maybe interesting use case - please post to mailing
list. RL: SAML doc for bindings and profiles with use cases.  Benefit to
get use cases into this.

OGSA Attributes  - Rebekah? (50 min/Remaining time) 
---------------------------------------------------------

MT summarised doc as stands. See MT's slides. 

ML: what if have bare attribute, no issuer?

MT: sig is optional (eg secure channel) ML: issuer optional too? VW: are 
we requiring the issuer is used, or just known. ML: if secure channels 
AIM: if verification is done before policy is applied.

Question: some assertions don't have issuers. When build authz service 
porttype, can it accept any assertion, or just these ones? VW: yes: 
username token might be attribute. DC: isn't the implication that the 
recipient issued it, if its a username say? VW: can be implied, therefore 
mandating it in protocol is a problem.

So issuer will be changed to optional.

DC: why value and datatype "0 or more"? MT: "do not cache" does not have a 
value. DC: it's boolean! Olle Mulmo: no, presence or absence of flags in 
X509.

Long discussion about whether statement of holder with no attributes, for
instance, means anything. Can make all elements optional? MT: does it make
it less clear to make things optional? Make recommendation?

SAML easier than XACML, since XACML actually has to understand it.

AIM: are all attributes we care about representable as strings that can be 
handled by std XACML attribute matching? DC: no, some role ones can't, 
unless choose names to be increasing order lexical order, say, (AIM: eg 
/operator/manager is higher than /operator? DC: yes) but then can't 
change your mind about the ordering.

DC: eduPerson limited in not specifying what the attributes mean fully 
enough. Long discussion about issues with this, and how attributes can be 
trusted/meaningful across VO/institution boundaries.

AOB
---

VW: who found telecons useful? ~12 people. No hummers found them not 
useful. How was 2 week freq? No objections. VW will organise more and 
schedule.


