
Minutes of GRAAP session at GGF13 Seoul 16th of March 2005
Session chair: Wolfgang Ziegler, Notetaker: Philipp Wieder

(for the slides of the session visit the GRAAP page at gridforge)

- ~20 participants
- legal stuff, sign-in sheets circulated
- agenda presented, announcement that this is just a reporting session, no 
  work on the spec. is done (none of the authors present)
- result of Public Comment Period
  - we received 36 comments (some of them collected at GGF12 in Brussels
    and inserted by Heiko)
  - 29 of them addressed and most of them resoveld, some still in discussion
    (see slides for status)
  - went through comments (slide presentation)
    - Jon MacLaren clarified his position on comment #12, he still thinks that 
      seperation of the doc should be carried out to separate protocol, format, etc.
    - Jon clarified comment #14, GGF recommendations should not rely on 
      standards which are not finalised yet. 
      Wolfgang: We changed this in the spec. to make more explicit 
      which specs are already finalised and which not. Some of the standards in progress 
      could be finalised before/during the second public comment period which will 
      reduce  this problem. The group will try to react on changes in referred specs.
    - #18 discussed heavily on the mailing list, but still far from being resolved
    - comments #28-#30 and #33 to #36 will be discussed during the following weeks
    - Questions: state of the specification, will there be major changes? 
      Answer (Wolfgang): No further, except for 
              - asynchronous operation (#2, still under discussion)
              - termination (#18, ongoing discussion) and 
              - removal of related agreements (#3, done), 
              But the changes are important enough to have a second public 
              period comment.
    - The group will try to set up dedicated telecons (or AG meetings) to resolve
      the open issues like asynchronous operation and termination
- Next steps
  - presented schedule for the next months
  - Stephen Pickles reported that Karl Czaikowski is less optimistic than 
    Wolfgang wrt to resubmission date (3-6 vs 3 month)
  - Question: Will editor time be as long as for the first submission? 
    Answer (Stephen): Pipeline works more quickly now.
  - Question: Is it just resolving comments or also bringing in new issues? 
    Answer (Wolfgang): No formal decision, but try to defer new
    issues to later.
  - Group thinks about f2f meeting before GGF14 to clarify comments and reach 
    a final agreement on spec. 
    Comment from Stephen: To achieve this such a meeting has to be announced 
    this week.
  - Comment Jon: Suggestion that authors come to GGF meetings, since it is the 
    best occasion for others to have f2f with them.
  - Question: Following up activity or closing down the group once the spec.
    is done?
    Answer (Wolfgang): When the second comment period is over and the
    revised spec. has been sent to the editor, the group will move back
    to original focus and address the negotiation.
  - Comment Stephen: One should think about experience docs/primer wrt the 
    implementations to get to recommendation (not mandatory).
    Answer (Wolfgang): there has been some (discontinued) work on a primer
    and there are several attempts to (partly) implement the spec - so it
    should not be too difficult to come up with such a document
  - Comment: It would be good see milestones on a primer. Jon offers to feed 
    training material into writing process.

