Attendees: Ralph, Egon, Leon, Gian Luca and Inder
-----------

Minutes and Action:
------------------

 - Ralph is the editor for this document and he has done an excellent job updating the document after October. 
 - He wants all updates by mid week so he can issue a revision to the fi-rg mailing list by Friday. 
 - Comments on the document: We need to clarify section 3.1.1 so it reads better and work on Classification of firewall issues.  
 - Move solutions to a new document. Should we start one now and introduce it at the FI-RG meeting at Athens?
 - Proposed Agenda for the Athens meeting:
	a. Agenda Bashing: Leon
	b. Document update and discussion: Ralph
	c. D-Grid Firewalls: Gian Luca
	d. Industry and research update: TBD
	e. Solutions document kick-start (?): Leon
	f. Wrap-up

Action Items
------------

- Writing assignments for this week:
	a. Clarify Section 3.1.1 - Gian Luca
	b. Fill out Section 3.5 on VPN Gateways - Leon
	c. Contact D-Cache authors to get a better pictorial view relevant to the use-case: Ralph
	d. Reorganize the use-cases in separate categories - Inder

- Ralph to publish the updated document as work-in-progress at the fi-rg mailing list by end of the week.

- Everyone needs to come with their classification ideas on Firewall Issues. Thijs since you were not there we volunteered you to lead that discussion :)
