DAIS Face to Face meeting in Manchester 8 & 9 December 2003
===========================================================

Minutes by Mario Antonioletti (mario@epcc.ed.ac.uk)

Attendees:
---------
 
	Mario Antonioletti (EPCC),
	Malcolm Atkinson (NeSC) - attended on day 2,
	Peter Clarke (UCL),
	Vija Dialani (University of Southampton), 
	Amy Krause (EPCC),
	Simon Laws (IBM), 
	Allen Luniewski (IBM),
        David Martin (IBM),
	Savas Parastatidis (Newcaslte)
	Norman Paton (Manchester University),
	Dave Pearson (Oracle).  
 
Present during telcons (at different points):

	Ann Chervenak (ISI),
	Dieter Gawlick (Oracle),
	Vitthal gogate (IBM),
	Shailandra Mishra (Oracle),
	Susan Malaika (IBM),
	Greg Riccardi (Florida State University)

Agenda:
------

Day1:
  - Data Management: Discussion of Classification and Terminology 
         (Norman Paton)
  - XML Realisation Issues (Amy Krause)
  - Grid Data Distribution (Shailandra Mishra)

Day 2:

  - Web and Grid Services - Impact on DAIS Specification (Savas Parastatidis)
  - Discussion on terms (as used in the context of WS-Agreement) (Simon Laws)
  - Planning (Norman Paton)
  - Relational Issues (Susan Malaika)

Copies of the Presentations are/will be available from Grid Forge:

       Documents->Face-to-face Meetings/Manchester-Dec03

Actions Arising from Meeting:
----------------------------

[Norman Paton] 

    Update the management slides in view of the discussion that has
    taken place at the f2f. Once posted will flag a request for
    volunteers from different vendors to take the token.

[Amy Krause + Susan Malaika + Simon Laws] 

     Construct a message to send to the list describing the options
     regarding the use of the OGSI extensibility pattern for
     parameters and return types to deal with the appearance of the
     same SDES across multiple portTypes.

[Simon Laws] 

     Look at WS-Policy to see what its status is and what the IP is.

[GDD Authors]

     Given that the principle means of the GDD is through an evolving
     informational document. This document should have a section that
     addresses its relation to publish/subscribe and other relevant
     groups/work going on in this area.

[Simon Laws]  

     Start and lead a discussion on terms that DAIS should be using.

[Mario Antonioletti]  

     Put a link in grid forge to the DAIS charter - consider adding
     trackers for each of the DAIS milestones.

[Norman Paton & Dave Pearson] 

     Invesitage whether dial-in access is going to be provided for the
     next face-to-face.

===========================================================================
Day 1
===========================================================================

Topics discussed:- 

       - Data Management: Discussion of Classification and Terminology 
         (Norman Paton)
       - XML Realisation Issues (Amy Krause)
       - Grid Data Distribution (Shailandra Mishra)

Program from that originally posted changed as Shailandra Mishra
(Oracle) was unable to get a visa in time to attend the f2f.

Topic: Data Management
----------------------

Norman gives a presentation on the use and definitions of the
Management interface as presented in the OGSA Data Services document.

Unattributed statements made in this section can (mostly) be inferred
to have originated from Norman.

The OGSA Data Services document at present is not entirely clear on 
management.

The third slide presented shows a resource manager which is taken to
mean the data service implementation. 

Savas: why is a "resource manager" not just called a "data service
       implementation"?

The Resource Manager is introducing a new term which is not helpful.

It is also pointed out that the third slide also seems to infer that a
data service could reprsent more than one data source.

Currently there is a task to delete the V-word (virtualization) from
the DataManagement definition.

In DAIS we have previously tried to invent things when we should
really be reusing - (slide 8) have a DMTF CIM data base model which
consists of:

     Database Systems
     Common Database
     Database Services.

A file system could fit under "common databases" but there are CIM
models that describe file systems. XML DBMS would fit better in this
categorization.

David: It's a UML model but is not object orientated.

If you take database service from the CIM model then some of the terms
are subsumed by the OGSI SDEs but there are other things that do not
fit in this category (see slide 16):

       e.g. OperationalStatus, LastStatusChangeTime, ...

Management of the data source - the underlying artifact - (still slide
16) some of these are defined in the database system of the CIM
database model:

	 - PrimaryOwnerName
	 - OperationalStatus
	 - InstalledDate

Allen: does that mean you are going to be presciptive if you use the
       CIM model?

We can talk about this later on.

slide 11.

The CIM_DatabaseParameter class provides an abstract model for
capturing data source settings. This provides a "get out jail"
card. This allows us to capture missing terms.

Savas: As there may be multiple data sources under a single resource
       manager - what was previously referred to in the plural has now
       changed to the singular.  The Data service document assumes
       that there is a 1-1 relationship so there is a contradiction
       there.

CIM assumes a 1-1 relationship. If there is a 1-many there is a
question as to how this is modelled. Can make it many and use a naming
scheme.

Savas: fine - once you have a naming scheme then you have a "context"
       that allows you to identify what information should be returned
       back to the user. The issue I have with the name thing is that
       the OGSI people will say that it should be a GSH and hence you
       go back to a 1-1 relationship ...

Discovery Link is a federated system that does not expose the
underlying data sources. If you were using Oracle you could use
something similar.

Savas: if you are exposing something then you have to ...

You could use a wrapper that allows you to access this ...

David: do you want a gsh for each object? ...

Savas: for every object you expose you have to provide a gsh and an
       interface.... that is the OGSI model.

David: this does break down if you try to expose a lot of objects ...

Dave: ... a distributed query processor may be a better example ...

Savas: if you have a file system then every file would need a gsh
       because every file needs to be accessed across the VO

Allen: but that is a choice you make as a data source provider

Savas: I agree but if you want to expose something then ...

Allen: I disagree .... you do not want to force everything to be a
       grid service ...

Savas: I agree but in this particular service you have to flick a
       switch to determine which data source you are going to use ...

Allen: but you can have a 2 part name that allows you to resolve
       between the two ...
...

David: they want to have a global name space ...

If things are not exposed as services then they are not resources
... they don't have to be in the model ....

Savas: but that is the conceptual model of OGSI ...

David: the OGSA model does not have anything outside of the model ...

Savas: in the file system you could have a single service for the
       whole file system and some underlying naming mechanism but the
       OGSI system then wants each file to have its own gsh ...

Allen: if you pull something out of a database your query result will
        not necessarily have its own gsh ...

...

Dave: if I own data then I will create services that are specific to
      the data that people want to access so you might expose your row
      as a service ...
...

Dave: in business I want to know the total sale for a given region for
      the last month - these would be exposed as a web service ...

The thing that is a service is the service but not the data ...

Savas: what Norman just said is not what the model says... the OGSA
       Data Service (DS) paper says that data is exposed as a service
       ...

The OGSA DS advocates the deployment of the handle as an
identification scheme at a very fine grain ... you can use a gsh to
identify files ...  when you go to that level and delegate down to the
lower levels people are going to feel uncomortable about drilling down
while trying to maintain the identification at these finer levels.

In the model you have aggregate and ask for properties ....

Dave: you are talking about data regarding the management of the
      interface ... management and access are different things ...

Savas: we need to know whether you are going to make the 1-1
       association.  If there is a 1-many then you can't do this
       without having an additional naming scheme ...

Dave: if you model it there are certain things that are not object
      orientated ... I would be against fine grained management...

David: we are talking about 2 things - the database and the data
       inside the database ...

The data source is the underlying thing. In the OGSA DS they do not
present a vocabulary to distinguish between the data and the DBMS.

Dave: in DBMS world there is a distinction between the DBMS stuff and
       the data that it contains ....

David: similar thing in file systems ...

We could say that we are not going to deal with the 1-many scenario.

Dave: I think that is acceptable.

.. and then you could have a parameter that would return you the
constituent sources if you wanted to kown this and you could not
prevent this.

Savas: as I expected you to reach this conclusion I have a follow
       on...

Dave: difference between integration and federation ...

Savas: if you make the 1-1 relationship then you have an issue when
       you expose the data source through various service instances
       ...  how can you determine these are all representing the same
       thing? Let's say that the data source is a DBMS and suppose you
       expose this through a single service instance ... then a second
       service comes in - how can they determine that they are
       pointing to the same thing? ...


Allen: does OGSI provide any answer to the identity question?

No

Allen: then the identity must be provided by the services ...

This means that we have to provide that kind of functionality.

Savas: this is just for the database ... but the problem is much
       bigger ... this is referred to the "relationship service" that
       can do this ...

David: there is WS-Naming ....

Savas: ... you have contextualisation... OGSI tries to talk about
       explicitly managing state while in web services it is implicit
       ...

Dave: I can remember this problem taking place at the beginning of the
      WWW ... it is something that happens all the time in business

Savas: achieve loose coupling by not identifying the service state ...

Vijay: you identify the state by application level logic ...

Savas: have application specific semantics ...

David: I would argue that this is a problem in WS as you cannot easily
       pass these are around ... there are not many application
       domains that have global name spaces ...

Savas: ISBN, post codes, telephone numbers, bank accounts ....

Vijay: there is an assumption that the application logic state can map
       into ... if your credit card number you could get a book back
       if the context is not clear ...

In the use of CIM stuff the two service would be able to get the
database name and within a context you could check whether the service
point to the same thing. You could query the database ...

Vijay: but you are trusting the information ... you can get the same
       view of the same database which would give you different names
       ...

Dave: but that is an unsolvable problem ...

Savas: but it is an inherent problem with the model ...

But this is a general problem ... you would have the same thing with
JDBC....

Savas: problem lies because you are making a link between the service
       representation and the object that it is representing ...

The name could be the same but you could have different views of what
is being shown ...

Savas: if we have a global name for the data source then we can ensure
       that we are talking to the same data source ... explicit
       contextualization ... we do not want to name the sessions ....
...

Savas: we should not make a 1-1 association between a name, the
       service instance and the underlying source ....

But we are not ... 

Savas: we should say that there is only one service and ...

David: you want a global name space for your data sources ... that is
       something that we have steered away for ...

Savas: everything that you want to expose should have a global name
       space ...

Allen: i don't see a need for that ...

Savas: ... because of all the problems ...

Allen: I've not seen any problems ... I am comfortable that as you
       drill down that at some point tha tyou have to slip out of the
       OGSA model at some point ...

David: the fact that you slip out pretty fast is the problem ... as
       soon as you want to do any managment ...

Dave: when you start doing starting and stopping of the dbms...

Savas: if you have 2 DS instance defined on a specific database where
       a DS instance is a stateful WS - you cannot talk to a Grid
       Service you have to talk to an instance ... if one of us shuts
       the database how can we ensure whether we are talking to the
       same databases ...

Vijay: if a service is providing an interface to a database why
       does someone want to stop it for someone else ... 

Savas: if you shut down the data source I cannot tell anyone else that
       I am shutting down the servide ....

Where do you appeal to for the name? ... if we implement the common
database name - if they expose unique names then we are ok ... if we
were to take the CIM common database schema name then we use that as
an identifier....

Savas: Norman has suggested that we need a second level of naming.
       Now we have a need to get a second name ... a gsh is not enough
       ...

Vijay: if a service provides management then its namespaces then you
       need to provide a local naming scheme ... if you are trying to
       have multiple data sources under a service ... it can extend
       its internals via some of the local naming system ... you do
       not have to expose the internal namespace ...

There are different flavours and we need to come up with different
solutions for these frameworks ... if you have a DS which has a
federation scheme then you can choose not to expose those data sources
but there are certain situations where you might want to do this in
which case you use a prameter ...

Savas: problem is with the things that are exposed and how they are
       expose outside the boundaries of the organization ...

The fundamental thing here is that a gsh identifies a service and not
a source. The problem is that the OGSA DS document sometimes uses a
gsh to identify data and we do not do that.

Simon: from our discussions they would like it to identify data.
       There is a discontinuity between the data identified by a
       service and the data itself .... Steve Tuecke was worried that
       other mechanisms were being used to identify data outside the
       gsh world ...

... and that is the way that it is going to remain ...

Vijay: you can name things inside the encapsulation of the data
       service using your own name space ...

Savas: what they suggest is that once you chose to identify something
       to the outside world then you have to use a gsh and in that
       context you should not use a 2 part namespaces ...

What the OGSA DS are currently suggesting as good practice may not end
up in the specs. It's fair to say that that doc it makes warm noises
about representing files as services ...  the document is an initial
pitch and then there may not end up representing stuff as services
....

Savas: but this is the only thing that is representing DAIS in OGSA
       ... this currently is presenting the only way to represent data
       in OGSA ...

It would be wrong in OGSA to over stress that document as the only
view of data in OGSA ...

... moving on ...

There are things that are not covered by the CIM database model -
security mpapings, how a data service is constructed from data sources
....

David: you are talking about data service instances?

Not really ...

David: CIM assumes that your management is welded on top of the data
       resource ? Not that there is something in between ...

Simon: there is a spectrum in how you use service and one of them is
       how CIM manages things ...

Currently have:

	  Data Service -> DBMS -> Data

There are things that characterise the DBMS and things that
characterise the data. Then there is the management of the
relationship between the data service and the DBMS ...

Simon: there are other scenarios ...

Some things could be implemented in different places ...

Things that are more difficult to place:
      
      - DDL commands can sit in the data access or data management.

...

Dave: there are three main layers: the data base management system,
      the data objects and the content of the data objects ...

Vijay: we have rich query languages ... we should not be replicating
       work that is already been done and which we should be extending
       instead ... a database will have views, objects, etc ...

Dave: we want a set of operations that give access to comparable
      operations that are technology management dependent ...

Vijay: would these not be best put into the access mechanism ...

Dave: Would argue that a systable (systems table) is an ordinary table
      but we need to be able to factor in the role ... I see problems
      in the commercial world where people will not want these things
      to be mixed together ... approach I would like to take that
      there are diffent classes of operations and I would like the
      services to distinguish ...  ultimately that comes to an
      implementation dependent level ... the spec should allow for
      both of these ...

Vijay: everyone will have to support the management portType some of
       which will be mapped to the underlying dbms operations ...

Dave: DML and DDL are well characterised ... 

CIM is not going to be helpful ... it does not classify commands ...

Dave: the closest that it comes to is at the database characterisation
      level

There is a suggestion being made here that you could provided the
functionality that you could choose to allow some range of commands
and then it is an implementaiton detail as to whether you support
these and the implementation filters these things ...

Allen: I think that is the right position ... it may do the blocking
       ...

Dave: I don't think that I am unique in having this view ...

Could use improved slides that take that view on board ...  then there
are other capabilities that are defined in the CIM database model I'm
not sure where they belong. Take size as an example - one possibility
is that the "size" is associated with a DBMS ...

Allen: but the service has state ...

Dave: but you can intepret size depending on the three layer model
      previously defined ....

The service could have its size - it could be the amount of memory or
cached data, could ask at the DBMS level and then could do that at the
table level ...

David: you could take it down to the blob level ...

Dave: it is a management thing ...

...

Could try to get some of these database characterisations and try to
map to fies ... just from the management perspective ...  We could go
away and fill in a table and see if we feel comfortable about doing
this ...

Vijay: there are certain objectives that we want to achieve and
       depending on these objective then that will allow us to decide
       between the different data models.

Norman takes an action to update the slides in view of the discussion
that has taken place.

David: every vendor has already done this ...

Dave: Did a trawl of CIM of what the different vendors are doing in
      this space ..

Discussion on what vendors have done in the space ... Norman picks
up an associated point ...

Mario: where is this going? Is it going to go forward as an
       informational document? Modify the OGSA DS document? ....

Some of it will feedback to the data service document and other
places ...

--- break for luch takes place now.

Topic: XML Realisation Issues
-----------------------------

Unattributed comments in this context should mostly be associated with
statements made by Amy.

Mario: if removeCollection is applied while another service is
       accessing that service then that other service faults?

Yes

...

Simon: are there position in the hierarchy of collections where some
       interfaces are valid and some are not valid? In order for an
       operation to be exposed at the interface must it be valid or
       does it fault?

...

Dave: a lot of the operations will be driven by the privileges a user
      has access to. So, despite the fact that the operations is
      present, it does not mean that you will be able to use it ...

...

Vijay: can use the policy of the underlying resource but can also
       implement policy using WS-Policy. These are different issues.

Simon: I don't see these as different issues...

Vijay: our interfaces should specify policy and not the other way
       round ...

Savas: that is not the way that the ogsi model currently works ...

...

A general discussion on policy followed as to where these are applied
and how they are applied. Porttypes for exposing intefrace are fairly
coarse grained and to a certain degree these issues are orthogonal to
policy. We define our portTypes in a way that seem to be functional
units and we just have to accept that some of these will be
operational and some of these will not be. We just have to accept the
granularity of our portTypes.

This then morphed into a discussion on agreement. 

The WSDL that you get back may depend on who you are. WSDL only
describes the messages that go between the service and the service
provider. The WSDL you get back may also depend on who you are (that
is to say the level of priviliges that you have).

Some of the capabilities may become invalid dependent on the type of
data resource that is being represented.

Vijay: WS-Policy should not take into account constraints imposed on
       the service.

David: but the policy might be that you get 100 files while I get
        1000 ...

Vijay: this can be implemented by the internal logic of the service
       ...  policy is about a negotiation ... the fine grained
       structure is not the part of the policy .. the policy should be
       about the semantics or the behaviour patterns ...

David: you need to determine some fine grained aspect ..

Vijay: ok it requires some further thought ...

...

Question from the slides - document insertion is in access while creation
of collections go in the data management - does this make sense?

No dissent. Need to check up with what xmldb is doing.

Should we name the factory portTypes after the services they create or
the resources that they are associated with?

Savas: why do you want to create a service? Why not just send the
       results back?

Norman: there is a synchronous version back that returns the results.

Savas: why do you want to do this anyway?

Norman: the result may be delivered to a third party ...

Savas: the result is then be named by the service.... with my OGSI
       primer hat on you may not need the factory... you don't have to
       have a factory ...

Norman: this was deliberate - you can have "F" and "f" factories
        ... you may want to say quite a lot about a derived artifact
        ... you can tell it the port types that are supported by the
        interfaces ... thus it cannot be created implicitly.

Simon: ... another reason for originally doing this was to encompass
       WS-Agreement that we are no longer bound to ... this does not
       mean that we cannot use an implicit factory ... we have
       struggled with the naming of these things ... so we started
       going down these route of using the name of the type of query
       or the type of thing that we were creating ... and you end up
       with all sorts of names that are not particularly satisfactory
       ...

Savas: if you have a factory portType then you have an XML document
       that can have a choice that tells you the things that it allows
       you to represent ... but that is a design choice ...

Norman: we have been "diddling" in this space as to what you do ...

Simon: this is an area worth revisiting ... we have the luxury of
       removing agreement ...

Savas: this will have to be revisited with factories going ...

Norman: are factories going ...?

Savas: nods ...

David: all of GGF is having this discussion ...

Savas: in Java you can have an operation that has do ...

Simon: we need to have some kind of consistent naming ... we need to
       recognise what we are doing as well as what we are not doing.

Dave: we need to see whether these things apply to the different data
      models ...

We can take action on this after the OGSI refactoring has taken place.

...

At the moment we do not have a document that specifies how things are
going to be presented to arguments - design patterns ... this will be
revisited tomorrow and try to make sure that an action comes out of
this. The terms needed to be placed in the creationService operation.

...

When you define an operation in more than one place does this appear
only once?

Savas: yes. There are some cardinality issues ...

Amy: this causes repetition ... but it is repeated in the document.

Things should not appear more than once... e.g. version is repeated
across access and factory portTypes.

Simon: need to factor the SDE to be be a parent portType ... but we
       can put the versioning information in the xml schema that is
       used to describe the wsdl ... need to work out what the right
       thing to do here

Savas: ... may require the extensibility ... or can extend the
       portType ... new message though requires a new portType ...

Norman: step that is more strict then stating a parameter ...

...

Norman: issues that carry across the portTypes the definition of the
        generic terms of the asynchronous operations and there is the
        precise defintion of the operations.

...

A discussion regarding the inclusion/mention of WS-Agreement followed
and whether we should use WS-Policy or not to describe terms. We need
some language to express the possible combination of terms.


Savas: WS-Policy is not intrusive into other specs ... it does not
       have any requirements on WSDL ...

Simon: if we are going to have SDE that advertise what is available
       you need some language to phrase this in ...

Savas: with WS-Policy you are referring to something that is static
       that does not change ...

...

David: you do not want to create the instance and then find out
       what can be done ...

Savas: no ... although bootstrapping is an issue ... all the GGF spec
       will have to be designed to take into account WS-Agreement
       ... there are issues with the design of the interface ...

Simon: maybe it is to do with choice ... we want to do a SQL query and
       we want to define an interface to interact with the result ...

Norman: and some of the semantics ...

Simon: is it really matter of choosing some service interface which is
       policy or is it a matter of how the services are placed ... do
       not materialise the results until we query them ...

Dave: do you think we will have that level of control? We can define
      it but at the implementation level there may not be that choice
      ..

Simon: question is how you define it ... here we need to look at the
       policy before the service is created ....

Dave: we are interested in the definition of that service ... how it
      is advertised that it is not something that they had done....

Savas: Policy is described as part of WSDL ... IBM are working on
       SOAP so that when it answers you it will return a policy
       document ... but this is not the case of WS-Agreement as it
       does not decorate ...

Simon: WS-Agreement is negotiated ... maybe we just advertise it and
       do not negotiate it ... we should still list all these things
       and see where that takes us ...
...

Vijay: another thing that services currently do is brokering and have
       mediators that negotiate the policy and do match making ... I
       don't think we should spend too much effort ...

...

David: if you are logged on and the policy is changed then there is no
       way to make you follow the new policy ...

...

--- coffee break

Topic: Grid Data Distribution (GDD)
-----------------------------------

Shailandra Mishra gave a persentation via the telephone. Unattributed
statements (mostly) came from Shailandra.

   - Have tried to address issues that arose from GGF9.
   - Have tried to look at the DAIS scenarios.
   - GDD simplification.

Went through a brief recap of the gdd model. Dynamic operations - can
done on the fly - what you want to publish and/or consume. Have
administrative and operational tasks. GDD gives you 3rd part
delivery...these things are in the slides.

A GDS can act both as a source and a target ...

Implicit publication occurs when data does not have to be
materialised.

...

Propragation is a combo of publication and subscription. 

The common theme of all these interfaces is that you have rules and
these define what you want to do.

...

Issued raised at the DAIS f2f after GGF9 - trying to factor the GDD
stuf to the OGSA DS base portTypes. Eventually decided to put the GDD
in as a data type of its own. Put this at the same level of
DataAccess, DataDescription et al. Furthermore GDD is divided into
subportTypes - GDDConsumer and GDDProducer.  GDD and DataAccess are
seen as orthogonal.

In order to implement a data service you ned to know a lot about data
services ... need to have a negotiation protocol which is a
requirement on WS-Agreement ... we need to be able to negotiate
capabilities ... if you look at the paper a set of capabilities have
been described which may not be generic enough but it provides a good
starting point. Have type capabilities, etc. This is not finalised as
yet.

We have all these interfaces - how do we provide monitoring?  The
monitoring will be provided through views. This is not a database
centric view. It applies to files et al. Have:

	 - administrative views
	 - security views
	 - statistical views (a debugging interface) - number of
	   messages, how many bytes have been transferred, etc.

If you look at the paper some of the details of the views have been
given.  These views are accessed through the dataManagement portType.
The views put a requirement on data access. Otherwise they are fairly
standard ways of accessing stuff from a GDD.

How does a GDD handle transactions? It depends on these capabilities
being offered though the GDS interface. Transactional capabilities are
negotiated capabilities.

A note from Dieter states that most transactional implementations do
not implement recoverable read and this is a necessecity for .. there
is also a fast read which also facilitates certain capabilties.

If we look at these interfaces you have all these identifiers so how
do you discover it? You would have to have a discovery service to
discover the services that a GDS is capable of.

We are trying to model DIAS scenarios 2 and 3 (as proposed by Greg
Riccardi) with the GDD interfaces.  By providing GDD we are not trying
to subsume anything. Trying to provide GDD to provide an
infrastructure. The existing GDS covers some of these scenarios. The
GDD covers most of the other scenarios (asynchronous).

Some of the scenarios were then examined in detail. None of this is
formalised and the details need to be worked out. Scenario 2 is
delivery to 3rd party. Use createPropagation to do this.

...

Although we can handle all these scenarios the implementation is quite
involved. Could provide a higher level interface to facilitate
usage. This is the purpose of doing this GDD simplification.

...

Need to work in the route, capability spaces ... can these
examples be used as a mechanism to formalise the GDD.

Simon: what is the overlap between this and data services?

The idea here is that we want to position GDD as an asynchronous
interface to do computing. GDS and DataAccess - I don't see an
overlap.

Simon : is it always necessary to specify a query to identify the data
        to do a delivery?

No, not really. Publication could be cone both implicit and
explicitly.  In these cases the data has been implicitly defined by
the use of a query.

You could subscribe a data service against a data service ...

Norman: if you take the current DAIS spec the result of a request could
        be produced as a service and that service could support a GDD
        portType and then ...

That is correct. If you want to implement a messaging service on a GDS
using GDD - you define a GDS as a queue and you subscribe to data by
whatever mechanism the GDS gives you. You can then subscribe to the
GDS as the publication source ....

Dieter: the line between publication and the GDS is kind of blurry.
        You don't know whether you insert the record or ...

Savas: this reminded a lot of message queues - what is the
       relationship to message queues? and in particular the OGSI
       notification portType?

If you look at the GDD interface - the GDD framework is much more
general notification interface if you look at propagation ...
notification goes from a service to a non-service. Also have the route
construction and the delivery construction ... we are not ruling out
that some of the notification could use the OGSI interface but you can
do it by other means....

Dieter: there is QoS and a lot of other things ...

Savas: I don't agree ... although OGSI is simple ... you are
       replicating a lot of the work that was done there ... you have
       both a push and a pull interface ...

Dieter: we should have this discussion at the next f2f ... it is very
        light weight but for a real service you want to provide a real
        one ...
...

Savas: you are combining functionalities from different areas into one
       spec that is why it seems that you are doing a lot ...

Vijay: the major diff between the notifications is that the ogsi is ....
        (missed that)

Dieter: the term of an event ... in this system the event is part of
        the infrastructure ...

Savas: I don't agree with you ...

Dave: this is an issue that could be dealt with out of band ...

Dieter: the difference is very big ...

Savas: earlier you mentioned a transactional requirement on the
       WS-Agreement spec - you should not specify requrements?
       Transactions are orthogonal to this specification so should not
       be included in that specification..

Dieter: you are right but none of the transaction that are out there
        implicitly asume that you use the client server model ...  if
        you are in a messaging environement then you need other
        services and all we are saying is that if you use transactions
        then you have to ensure that these other services are there
        ...

Savas: I was talking about ws-transaction ...

Dieter: database can internally have transaction services ...

Savas: you are talking about semantic descriptions?

Dieter: that is an application problem ... can you support this? ... I
        am a propagator ... can you support this? ... and if you can't
        specify this ... you currently cannot do this ... this is what
        commercial systems do ... this should be visible in the
        community ...

Savas: you allow for requests to be named - is that using a gsh?

If you look at our interfaces we return a private identifier which is
not necessarily a gsh as there are questions of the capability of a
gsh ...

Savas: I agree with you ...

Peter: is someone going to present this tomorrow at the data
       transport?  I don't feel comfortable to do this myself ... it
       should be about 15 minutes ...

Norman: Susan do you know if anyone from IBM is dialling in tomorrow
        ...  I'll chase Cecile ...

Ann: Cecile had assigned someone to talk about it tomorrow ...

Cecile forwarded some information ... what time?

Dave: 3pm tomorrow ...

Shail: I can do that ...

Ann: wondering if the call destination is the same tomorrow

Norman: tomorrow is an access grid session ...

Peter: but there is a phone number ...

...

Peter: question of scope - David and I are checking the activity of
       the plan ... are you keeping to your original scope? Is data
       transport supposed to be in scope of what you are supposed to
       be doing? Maybe you should have a BOF and propose having
       another group on data distribution.

Dave: we are not in scope to have data distribution in our group but
      we are interested in this area ...

Dieter: best to say to the GGF where this goes ...

Peter: if you stay in DAIS you could have a portType that does not
       have the shape to fit all the other requirements ...

Dieter: for us it is convenient to have the context and the data
        services make them active ... if we separate then it will take
        much longer ...

David: you are still able to go to the DAIS meetings ...

Peter: Bill Allcock will talk about reliable file transfer ... I don't
       know how much overlap there is or whether you guys are talking
       to them ... you can't do something in a hidden corner...

Norman: expected this to be raised at GGF9 but it did not happen ...
        maybe tomorrow we should have the broader look around and then
        see how we fit ..

Peter: suppose someone came and proposed to set up a BOF on data
       transport ... we could not say that you cannot do that because
       there is a group in DAIS doing that ...

David: have talked with Cecile about this issue ... I thought you
       guys were putting together a few bullet points that could
       constitute a charter .. don't know if any progress has been
       made ...

David: there are a couple of comments - looks very similar to IETF -
       the CDI group ... they dealt with a lot of these ideas.  They
       have shut down now. Another thing that you may need to discuss
       is multicast data distribution ...

Dieter: there focus is how you distribute things to lots of people in
        this instance we are looking at transforms ... the expresssion
        the large numbers of things that you can publish ... this is
        really needed in the community ... you need to see what is
        relevant in the guy that wants to receive or the guy that
        wants to publish the data. We focus on what is relevant to the
        data consumer ... this is not addressed by the multicast data
        distribution people ...

...

In sigmod we looked at some of the publish-subscribe models
- there is no efficient data distribution in this model. ...

Dieter: and the subscription is done at the creation not after the
        creation

Each subscriber has got their own rule ... the multicast model does
not follow this ...

David: you need to answer these questions ...

Given that the principle means of the GDD is through an evolving
informational document. This document should have a section that
addresses its relation to publish subscribe and other relevant groups.

Vijay: you are using rules for scheduling ... if you have a 3 part
       query then ... have you consider when you have a continuous
       query then your scheduling part may not hold ... in the spec
       can the subscriber look at the number of messages that have
       been back dated before the subscription? ... have you
       considered bookmarks .... and there was a 3rd question

Dieter: coming from the database whenever data becomes visible things
        happen but whether these things happen constitute an even
        depends on how things happen. When you look at how the events
        depends on you ...  you could look at data 10 years ago. You
        have 2 streams of events ..  we don't care ... warehousing
        ... there are so many tools to identify events ... if you
        bring them together then wonderful things can happen... in W3c
        they were forgetting to put the end points ..

Vijay; if you consider a bookmark certain events can be invalidated
       by subsequent events ...

Dieter: it would be wonderful if you worked with us and wrote a richer
        event language ... the complex event community have not done
        anything in this area ... you can express a lot of things with
        existing languages ... we can try to do things with existing
        languages and alter can try to develop more generic languages
        ...

Vijay: let's see how we can take it forward ...

...

David: for tomorrow's discussion if you can put a few sentences
       together regarding issues ...

If you send me some emails regarding the existing issues then I can
look at these ...

...

Vijay: was not able to say anyhing about the visibility of
       publications as other folks may become interested if they see
       this ...

Exactly... in the presentation there was a small section
in the presentation about the visibility

Vijay: if you put it in discovery then it will be a passive ...

...

===========================================================================
Day 2
===========================================================================

Topics discussed:-

  - Web and Grid Services - Impact on DAIS Specification (Savas Parastatidis)
  - Discussion on terms (as used in the context of WS-Agreement) (Simon Laws)
  - Planning (Norman Paton)
  - Relational Issues (Susan Malaika)

Topic: Web and Grid Services - Impact on DAIS Specification
-----------------------------------------------------------

Unattributed comments in this section mostly belong to Savas.

Norman asked me to talk about the DAIS and the impact of the recent
and upcoming changes. The presentation does not relate to the
up-coming OGSI 1.5.

Dave: can you talk about OGSI 1.5?

OGSI is going to be an alignment of web services and grid services.
Not privy to the changes. OGSI 1.5 will probably be discussed at 
the next GGF. That is the informal information that I have.

Malcolm: couple of recent discussions with Steve Tuecke - that is
         where Steve hoped it would go but because IBM are major
         players they have to agree on what the shape of the spec
         before it can go.

Can't say much about OGSI 1.5 is because we do not know.
Some of what is in OGSI will be taken out of OGSI and be placed
in other standardisation efforts.

Try to establish of placing the context of web services.
Relate the current OGSI spec with the DAIS spec and how this
could fit within the web services architecture. Propose an
alternative to SDEs.

Some of the things that are important for service architectures
are the four tenets give by Don Box:

    - boundaries are explicit
    - services are autonomous
    - service share schema and contract, not class
    - service compatability is determined based on policy

in the Grid services world we do want to cross boundaries

Peter: can you explain the former statement?

Because of the current model  - e.g. being able to manage resources
in a VO and expose these to the external world. In service orientation
this is not very good.

Malcolm: Jeff Nick will give you example after example where customers
         want to do this kind of thing - this is one of their goals.

Dave: that is a bad example - a farmer company becomes internal ...
      Distributed yes ... but not a farmer company ...

...

Malcolm: we are arguing about a position in the spectrum and not a
        dichotomy ..

Savas: if you take extereme positions then you do have a dichotomy...

Malcolm: but you are characterising them as being in opposite position
         of the spectrum ...

Savas: but I think they are ...

...

Have tried not to use the word state throughout the slides.

In the distributed objects world you have services and have pointers
that go from one object to a pointer to an object in another system.
You have a shared type system ... CORBA imposes a meta type system..

Malcolm: you only agree on the info on the types that you wish to
         exchange.  Internally you can have your own types ... we have
         to be very careful as to how different these things are ...

Once you have these meta type systems where you have interfaces and
methods to those interfaces ... these are the entry points to your
in-memory representations.

Malcom: you don't actually point to the objects and they don't often
        reside in memory .. in the ejb model you will be constructing
        them from an implicit state ...

This is my view of distributed objects ... you have an IDL for a
purchase order ... objects are described in terms of their interfaces
... their behaviour ...

We assume that we have these objects in memory and point to their
location which brings up a whole bunch of issues ... distributed
computing using angle brackets ...i.e. xml. Current tooling encourages
this approach. It makes it easier to think of services as objects.
The OGSI model is the same ... it is the CORBA model using xml.

Web services on the other hand have services that act as black boxes.
You do not see the internals. All you do is exchange messages. If you
send a message a and a message bacj then how do you correlate these
messages? This is where contextualisation comes in. It allows you to
place these messages. Cookies can be used to establish a context/state
based interaction.

Malcom: ... you've changed your perspective where you are talking
        about someone interacting with the service and do not have to
        know the internals but if you are building services you do
        need to know about the internals.  Your view is dependant at
        the level at which you view the system. ... there are
        fundamental issues here that we have to think about which have
        their inherent complexities ... when we are an engineer
        building the system ... we provide a simple interface when we
        are building ... you are kind of changing focus ...

I don't think that I am ... the only thing we agree in my service
interaction is how we exchange messages and will not allow you to see
my internals ...

Malcom: that is true at the level you are presenting but if you are
        doing business then I will want to know about some of the
        internals of your system ... at a later point you close the
        doors ... your cleaness here is a matter of how you are
        choosing to look at it ...

Dave: the way I interpret what you (Savas) are saying is the way that
      most systems work in real life ... in a car insurance dealership
      then you will not know anything about the internals ...

Malcolm: but if you want to be a cross dealer then I will examine your
         internals ... so it depends on your perspective ... different
         perspectives require different amounts of
         information. ... withing DAIS we are looking at things from
         the prespective of a service builder ...

Vijay: you are mixing two issues - encapsulation is not the issue in
       moving from the distributed object world to web services
       ... the web services had three issues ... (missed the frst one)
       ... wire protocol ... integration issues.

...

Malcolm: system builders will have more knowledge of the internals
         than you will provide to the end user ... it's just a
         question of perspective...

..

Difference between SOA you have message exchanges. In OGSI you allow
to references inside your services ...

Allen: are you just not making an artificial distinction ... the
       messages try to refer to things inside your service boundaries
       ...  they have effects ...

Discussion of amazon.com as a use case and whether the user identifier
(a cookie) can be taken as representing a pointer to an object
representing you or whether it does not represent an actual object ...
discussion moves on to discuss whether this corresponds to gsh ... the
conceptual model encourages thinking of pointers to objects ...

...

Malcolm: DAIS has partitioned the space into xml, relational, files
         because the space is large which will encourage developers to
         think of these things as separate things ... this is a result
         of the partitioning... once people partion the infromational
         exchange into sub-system then people will start thinking
         about the existence of those sub systems ...

...

Another analogy of using an order number as a way of exchanging
context.

...

Data services currently have a factory interface which creates a data
access interface which has a one-to-one association with the data
resources. Multiple resources will be exposed through multiple
services.

Malcom: not necessarily as you could have one service that represents
        the multiple services ...

OGSA DS suggests that every file is represented by its own gsh ....

Malcolm: there were a bunch of us who proposed grid data handles to do
         that kind of identification - the issue is that you are going
         to have to do this identity problem as you will want to
         identify files ... do you provide new mechanisms or do you
         piggy back on existing systems ... and as you have a
         distributed name space already it's a good idea to piggy back
         on that ...

I do not have an issue with naming it is the coupling of identity and
interface that I have a problem with ... identity + interface gives
you an object ... which lifetime ...

Norman: it's in the semantics of the application ...

Malcolm: at some point you still have to make these decisions ...

A bank account is unique - credit cards have a different system and
the world still works ... OGSI wants to impose a universal identifier
..

Malcolm: for all things that want to participate in the  Grid ...

...

Allen: why can't take a resource and expose it through an interface? ...

... 

Norman: the tendency here is for you to drill in bits of the OGSA DS
        document that are weak ... you don't think of a service
        uniquely identifying a piece of data ...

... but this is the encouraged model in OGSI ... the fact that they
are moving to a ws-resource ... it comes back to exposing things
coupled to an interface ... that is what the issue is ... in the SOA
(Service Orientated Architecture) you don't have that ...

Simon: it is clear that in WS and OGSI you have an issue with identity
       - how do you identify the data that you wish to manipuate?
       Peter Kuntz introduced the idea of a GDH (Grid Data Handle) ....

Malcolm: in a sense this has re-appeared but this involves of
         developing of another protocol for doing this ... some people
         say that this is unnecessary ... it is debatable if you can
         build systems based on one or two naming schemes ...

Simon: there is the associated idea of context ... can pass parameters
       to identify that context. In OGSI the context is identified by
       the interface and in ws you have to pass your context
       identifier to the correct service ....

Malcom: people building services need to understand what identifier
        you pass to what service ... we are thinking about things that
        need doing ... the argument for regularity for services that
        have common properties ... it is not wrong for people to say
        that if you want to play in our grid party then you have to
        wear our gsh badge ...  if you want to display your context
        badge we are just re-organise our regularities ...

I am not saying that they are wrong ...

Malcom: but you have to re-introduce these regularties ...

...

Go back to looking about the model in DAIS. Multiple services pointing
to the same data brings up identity issues - is it the data of the
service or of the data. Similarly with multiple instances representing
the same data resource.

If we want SDEs to access some of the state you put them at the
service interface.

This approach is driven by OGSI and because it is different from the
vanilla WS view then you have to modify your tooling to take into
account of these extra capabilities ...

Malcom: the only fundamental issue though is whether you do need to
        use additional tooling or whether you can use existing tooling
        ...  my impression of the 1.5 spec is that you can use
        existing tooling ... but that is only my impression ... I do
        not know ...

I am only talking about what is out there just now ...

...

Malcom: do you put under session transient data that which needs to be
        collected under data resources? ...

under data resources ...

Simon: what about the other OGSI things like creation and lifetime ...

I see that as metadata.

Savas goes on to present how data services could live in a web
services service orientated architecture ...

...

Try to decouple the identity and resource ...

Malcolm: but you now have to establish a binding between the interface
         and the resource ... you then have to reconstruct these
         regularities.  ... I don't care where we do it but we have to
         do it ....

Perhaps we will end up doing similar things but the approach will be
different. I have a feeling that the approach that I am presenting is
more loosely coupled than what is presented by OGSI.

Use a urn and not uri to identify the resource. A urn is a uri but it
imposes the extra restriction that it is globally unique and valid for
all time. Once you have labelled a urn to a data resource you have not
changed it ...

Malcom: there is nothing to stop to have more than one urn to refer to
        the same resource which is what you complained that OGSI are
        doing ...

... you may be right ... I need to think more about that ...

Malcom: do you put all these things in one parameter or in the header
        where they are not explicitly identified ...

I don't think of parameters ... I think in terms of document
exchanges ....

Malcolm: tooling thinks of parameters and you said that tooling is one
         of the reasons for moving in this direction ...

...

By using the document approach one can use existing tooling for
metadata.  All the OGSI concepts can map naturally to WSA.  Should
focus on document formats and not just interfaces.

Malcom: to me data sets have nothing to do with services and if they
        turn them into services then they are making a mistake ...

I am not saying that we should not define interfaces but that the
focus should be on document formats...

... now did a demo ...

Demo showed how things could be done without using SDEs.

Malcolm: now we need to sit back and see how that affects this working
         group.  We want to make as few assumptions as
         possible. Within GGF context though we fit within a larger
         grouping. ... from the point of view of DAIS it would be nice
         to define the standards so that they would work with vanilla
         services, vanilla corba, ... whatever we are able to find
         available as to what we are really interested in is what is
         at the base level. We want to minimise dependencies on
         whatever context is used ...

...

Malcolm: ... when I was involved in the early meetings in OGSI about
         two years ago the plumbing did not seem to be there ...

... I was extremely careful to use technology that was available two
years ago ...

...

Malcolm: identity and behaviour are exteremly important to us
         ... interface is something else ...

...

Dave: your presentation is a different conceptual model ... 

...

Norman: that is quite useful, thanks Savas, we know that change is due
        ... what Savas is saying is that OGSI specific things in the
        spec

    - use of instances for sessions
    - use of instances for results ... can use other data referencing
      schemes ...

Most of our work is defining types ... it would be good to come up
with a common schema ... taking the big picture we can drive forward
with semantic issues of requests and results and we can try to absorve
the changes in OGSI ...

What we do know is that factories and instances are getting ...  we
get resources instead ...

Peter: what is the difference? ...

Malcolm attempts to represent the changes as he understands them:

Currently have:

	   gsh -> grid service instance

in the future you will have:  

   ws-address: endpoint service -> service instance
               internal identifier

This labels the resource to be modified by the service instance 

The current gsh uri type thing maps fairly easily to this new framework..

...

Savas: my understanding is that the ws-address is going to be carried
       in the headers to do contextualisation ...

Malcolm: that I don't like. I prefer things to be done explicitly in
         the wsdl ... there have been proposal to add header aspects
         to wsdl but these things have gone away ...

...

Malcolm: early discussion of OGSI - nov 2001 - talked about managing
         the provisioning of services ... one of the models at the
         time was selling the underlying compute and storage resource
         by bringing resources to satisfy peak demands ... hence you
         had a factory to bring this stuff.  Bill Joy talked about
         migrating database or creating an empty database on a site in
         the power grid ...

...

Dave: the next session is on planning.

--- coffee break

Topic: discussion on terms
--------------------------

Simon leads a discussion on semantic terms on the spec. Unattributed
comments are mostly Simon's.

The "terms" in this instance are as those that would have been
referred to in WS-Agreement. The construction of that document allowed
you to talk about all the things that could be negotiable terms. Had a
tentative set of terms that could be used in the spec. Now want to
talk about the terms and the functions that these imply.

Malcolm: originally you were talking about requirements on a service
         but now you are talking about requirements on the results ...

Not necessarily ...

---
Terms below are as were written up in the white board - text below
carries the discussion that went round these terms.

    ReadData
    Cached (don't throw away once read; static - snapshot - 
           don't follow underlying data - read consistent in oracle 
	   terminology)
	   - created on query
	   - created on 1st use

   Clients tend to expect read consistency timestamped at query time.

   Query time - time it was defined
	        some time specified for query run.

   Metadata can be used to:

	    - advertise options
	    - express given service behaviour
		      - the context to which the apply/
		        lifetime of the agreement

   Updateable

	- Apply to cache only
	- Write back to the original resource - best effort (still going
	  via the cache) - dependence on query

---

Mario brought up Mike's document that was posted to the DAIS
list. This considers:

      Isolation levels mentioned.
      Isolation - between transactions.

David: are you talking about versioning?

Malcolm: no.

Discussion on versioning followed. 
Versioning is a property of the underling resource.

Dave: we should frame these terms as things that we see that are
      important...

Malcolom: an important property of DAIS components is that they should
          be linked as closely as possible to the underlying data
          components. The problem we have here is a component of the
          underlying service or are we describing something else at
          the service level? Something that will be done on behalf of
          the client and whether it will produce a result at a later
          point.

...

Discussion on read consistency followed ... there are lots of
implementation strategies - what is important is to have
understandable semantics.

Norman: there will be no MUSTs for these things.

David: not sure if these things should be optional.

Norman: ... not all of these things ...

Vijay: when considering semantics are we using it to specify the
       service behaviour? ... is a capability or a way of specifying
       the service? ...

Simon: could be both ...

Malcolm: is this metadata of what the service says is available or is
         it a request for behaviour from the service? ...

...

The next one is about the nature of the data and the properties that the
data follows ...

Talk about best effort to do a write back ... 

Vijay: are we consider the data set role? ... the model does not apply
       to all instances? ..

David: you don't necessarily know the properties ..

Malcolm: that is why you need descriptions ... equally you have to
         have good descriptions at the clients ... you need to be able
         to make queries about how many clients are doing updates
         ... currently though we are in a simple space ... if the
         query was updating statics some queries are semantically
         meaningless ... depends very specifically on the query ..

David: remember it's not necessarily a database ...

Malcolm: but even so I'm using query in a very general sense

...

Simon: what is the implication of "write to resource"?

Dave: updatable could imply that there is no data in the cache ...

Simon: you could be writing to the cache ...

David: people that do that type of thing work hard to hide the cache
       ... maybe this is the wrong thing to do ...

Malcolm: db managers do allow you to have different models of cost to
         apply to different cache strategies ...

David: that is usually at the db admin level and not at the
       negotiation ...

Malcom:  the db person could be working across the grid

Dave: but David is right they tend to hide these things ...

Malcolm: but if you are doing tuning then you expose these things...

Dave: but going back to the Savas presentation you want to treat it
       as a black box...

Malcolm: ...but for time dependent users you might want to squeeze the
        last bit of performance .. this would facilitate that in a
        distributed system ..
...

Malcolm: still not clear on the things that Simon is trying to do here

    - all the terms.
    - the structure for a space of terms.
    - what the terms should apply to.

Much like ws-agreement sets up a structure if we explore the space we 
can come out with a structure ...

Dave: we are trying to determine the terms.

...

Malcolm: I think the three things are getting merged now...

Simon: we are trying to identify the terms and what they apply to...

Malcolm: you think we should identify terms across multiple data
         resources ... maybe we should come up with a structure that
         can later be filled out ...

Dave: currently trying to just determine the terms ...

David: are we looking at control or just information? is it what is 
       available or what we want ...?

Norman: some are to do with properties of the servide and others to 
        do with the underlying data resource ...

David: in AFS you can do write through where it will not modify the
       cached copy and go right back to the server ...

...

Simon: want to be a bit more concrete ... want to explore the space ..
       establish whether we need to be concrete or abstract in the
       spec ...  trying to be a bit more concrete in the first phase
       ...

David: the data and/or the data store ...

Simon: the data and the data store ...

Dave: an interesting point in the semantics of the terms is whehter
      they apply do the data or the data resource ...

...
 
Malcolm: you might use these as agreement terms ... do not want to
         deal with you unless you can specify certain terms ... can
         enter a negotiation stage ...

Dave: we are just looking at the terms and what these terms aply to ..

...

Discussion as to how these things should be implemented or not ...
current view is to explore the space and see what we come up with.
At some later point these guys may be substantiated ....

...

Simon: another term was the interface a derived service should
       implement.  What is the mechanism to determine those
       portTypes? It might be that the factory only supports one type
       of interface. On the other hand if a factory can have more than
       one interface then we must be able to provide a mechanism to
       make that choice or join the particular interfaces in mind.

...

Malcolm: not convinced that you can say this resource with this
         interface or that resource with that interface ... using a
         factory to create service A with interface A or service B
         with interface B pointing to the same data resource? Can it
         be done?

Savas: this is something that we have to think about as service
       instance may go away ...

Malcolm: it becomes more and more like a capability model where it
         relates to the identity to pass it back ... you are entitled
         to reduce the capabilities ...

Savas: the new model - once you create a resource it would allow for
       the wsdl of a service to dynamically change.... you could
       express capabilities ... the wsdl of that serfvice will change
       dynamically.  You are allowed to return a subset of a wsdl
       document... my assumption is that this is the way that they are
       going to go ... that is the way that I would have gone with
       ... I think this is bad ....

Malcolm: we should identify this as a requirement and ask them how
         they are going to do it ...

Savas: you identify the resource, you give it an identity and then how
       you give it capabilities you use another service ...

Malcolm: but if I want tools that constrain my operations to the wsdl
         - current tools would not deal with the service is associated
         with WS-Address and not the end point ...

Savas: need a communication between services ... this takes as back to
       identity. The naming is subject to that context ...

David: a metaquestion is this going to be used ? or do people pick
       their data resources ...

Savas: I'm trying to put myself in the mindset of OGSI ...

...

Savas: the base is that "I want information ..."

Norman: some of the terms will be orthogonal to the interface that you
        require ... for a given semantics you can assume the maximal
        interface is provided ...

Savas: we tend to think of what humans would do rather than
       machine-to-machine interactions ... it will be difficult to
       work out the semantics bu machines.

Malcolm: what we are thinking of here is talking in different ways to
         a database ... how you access the result after it is made.
         Then you constrain the interface to support that model. ...
         the service can do A Or (exclusive) B ...

...

Simon: how do you make the selection of writing that contract ... how
       do you say that? In OGSI it relates to the portType name...

Savas: I, as a service, support portTypes X,Y and Z and I advertise
       the fact that I am prepared to accept messages to any of these
       contracts ...  there may be some security or policy based
       negotiation that forces to use only one of the interfaces but
       that is orthogonal and we should not care about this ... there
       might be an issue that, based on the data source, some of your
       interfaces are not valid but that is a metadata question...

Simon: question is the control side of it? Are we going to rely on
       what the service can do or can we ask for an interface to be
       supported?

Savas: you are suggesting to dynamically alter the published wsdl...?

Simon: no ...

Savas: why tell the service that you are only going to use only one
       particular portType? ...

Malcolm: it may be that different resources require different
         portTypes ...  how do you tell the portType?

Savas: metadata ... if you want to create a data set that data set
       will be defined in a particular name space and that name space
       may be associated with a particular interface .... hence you
       know an identifier belongs in a different name space cannot be
       used.... when you build the application you will know that ...

David: there is a problem with metadata ....

Savas: you could put it in metadata but I was talking about the schema
       ...  once you go to global naming scheme then you need more
       info ... just outlining possibilities ...

Simon: ... saying I want to create a resource that is associated with
       interface A but not interface B ... in the WS world these would
       have different end points ...  in your registry you associate
       the relevant wsdl with the named end point ... then we could
       rely on document types to determine which are valid but then
       you have no info about the end points ..

Savas: the same is true with OGSI -

Simon: we put in a query that brings forth another resource and you
       want to specify the way that you access that resource in an
       exclusive fashion - there is a mixture on interface and policy
       ...

Malcolm: you may be charged depending on the capabilities ...hence you
         might want to suppport this working model (cost here is not
         necessarily monetary ... it's also out of scope)...

Savas: what is the point for a client to say that a client only can
       receive a type of message?

Malcolm: who checks that though?

Savas: if the client only wants to use that interface why do you have
       to tell the service?

Malcolm: you have to tell the service as the service may commit
         differents amount resource

Savas: but you are now talking about behavioural semantics ...

Simon: the analogy is your bank account number ... in this instance we
       want to be able to restrict the capability ....

Savas: To the Microsofts & probably IBMs everything is based on
       policies ... what you get back are the things that you can do
       with that service ...

Simon: and possibly a description of the semantics and capabilities
...

Dave: if you look at the real world you have an id that is independent
      of the services - NHS number, bank account ...

Savas: yep

Simon: inside the application it knows what it's going to talk to and
       the semantics that surround that interface ...

Savas: how do you know the capabilities ...

Dave: the only link here is the unique identifier and the service
      identifies you against that service ... all service refernece
      those ids.

Savas: that is the model that I have in mind ...

Dave: that is the model that is used in the real world ...

Savas: that is why they are called banking *services* ....

Topic: Planning
---------------

Unattributed comments in this section are mainly Norman's.

Documents	      F2F					GGF10
---------             ---					-----
1. Data Services     Revision: many small changes (Ian)
2. Data Service Spec Try to look at some aspects of             submit
                     service semantics.
3. XML Real.                                                    submit
4. Relational Real.                                             submit
5. GDD               relate to other work
6. Files 
7. Compound operations and compound data

Change requests about the data services document might best go to Ian
Foster directly and possibly to the list as well if you feel that way
inclined. When the document goes up we should then log issues as
trackers in the DAIS Grid Forge group. There are some issues that are
already at the back of the document. There will be a revised version
of the document by the next face-to-face.

There are 3 weeks between the next face-to-face and the document
deadline submission for GGF10.

Question as to whether we can revise the documents to reflect the OGSI
spec - the consensus is to leave as is until this stabalizes.

Plan then is to try to incorporate the terminology for the service
semantics. The Realisation documents will reflect these changes and
there will also be some local evolution. The issues that are going to
require discussion at the f2f are those regarding the service
semantics.

Submission here is taken to mean as an infromational draft.

Other things:

GDD: 

     - Relate to other work
     - Refine in document
     - Evolve the use case document
  
For GGF10 produce a revised info document and possibly consider a BOF.

Files: Not sure on what the status is. Not sure whether this requires
       a change to the charter or a new group.

Compound operations and compound data: this is being lead by Malcolm 
and Greg. Not to clear how this is being done.

Malcolm: at the workflow and provenance workshops at NeSC there was a
         requirement about thite compound operations document,
         e.g. Mike Wilde so I hope to take some action in this space
         ...

It is hoped that the compound operation document will make it to ggf10
as an informational document.

There are no documents that are in the GGF process.

As we have the data areas chairs ... we've been pushing our milestones
back. If OGSI changes we should not try to produce specs on something
that is changing. We hope to have most things complete but still have
issues with 

David: you should do new milestones ...

Peter: your milestones are not easily findable ... possibly put a
       tracker for each milestones ...

At the next face-to-face will do:

   - files if possible
   - compound operations if possible
   - GDD
   - terminology for service semantics

there is a data day...

Savas: I don't think the changes on OGSI will affect you much other
       than in the terms....

Dave: are other groups going to be affected by the OGSI changes?

David & Peter: not as far as they know

Peter: regarding procedure - no group can take a spec under its care
       that is not explicitly mentioned in that charter ... the common
       sense for this - if a group understand the need for a service
       that has a limited scope in that group which others may also
       see a need for it. The work on GDD should be exposed to be
       visible to other groups ...

Norman: have been in touch with Dieter ... although a new group may
        come into being we can still have close collaboration between
        the two groups ...

Vijay: we have to have these forums but the ggf process should not
       restrict progress through paperwork ...

Peter: but there are issues that may be of interest to other groups
       ...  if you want to produce a standard though it needs to be an
       open process ...

...

Malcolm: we need data movement.... the data distribution seems to be
         something more general ... there seem to be more low level
         data movement services that are needed as well and it's not
         clear if it's in that group or whether it even goes in the
         data area or somewhere else. I would suspect that it is
         outside the context of DAIS but work closely with DAIS....

I think that that is what is going to happen ... they are been given
an opportunity....

David: great to incubate groups ...

Malcolm: Unless we incubate midwhich cukoos....

Savas: if you think that there is value in talking about the process
       issue between the OGSA DS and OGSA ... whether an action takes
       place?

Malcolm: can we get committment from the data area chairs about the
         gap analysis and how we fit in within the greater framework
         ...

There is a workshop taking place ...

Peter: cannot give a committment - Susan and Andre have done work and
       for that they should be commended but personally I do not have
       time to work on ... it's going to be a best effort thing.

---- lunch

Topic: Susan Malaika on Relational Issues
-----------------------------------------

DAIS telcon/Access Grid

Susan Malaika on Relational Issues

Made a summary list of the points and issues that came up at the
previous GGF. Have made a subset list that we can start working for
the next f2f.

	- SQL management portType
	- improve the DBOperation porttype
	- review relationship with tranformations and transactions
	- remove the agreement

Have an agreement with the CGS WG to start working on data
management. Our plan is to look at CIM 2.8, to be completed in
February, and see whether some items can be added to CIM 2.8 and add
some more items to CIM 2.9. They are ready and waiting to
collaborate. At the end of the meeting the next steps were defined -
to put in the next steps. Had some motivating scenarios.

Using the scenarios it should possible to use the CIM model. May
add/remove from the existing list of scenarios.

Malcolm: will this be on the slides when we get them?

Yes - everything is on the slides. Larry Flon is the chair and
Ellen Stokes may be a co-chair. We could have a section on this
topic at the next f2f. Larry is on the west coast so he could
come along.

The other piece of work is improving the DBOperation description -
sketchy at the moment. Also, the data description portTypes ...
should send an xml representation for sql to the ansi sql
standardisation group.

Norman: had a chat about management issues - the action I took away
        from that was to update the slides. This has not been linked
        in with the interactions that you have been having.  Should
        liaise with you before distributing the slides more widely.

Susan: There are some GGF slides which you may want to look at...

Norman: if progress that can be made with management then we could
make progress at the next f2f.

Dave: there is a lot being done by vendors - I can identify someone
in Oracle ...

Susan: the IBM folks are Ellen ...
       ... could do stored procedures and stuff to make representations on.
       Did not pick anything contravertial

Norman: these things are independent on any forthcoming changes coming
        from the OGSI front ... on the planning front for GGF10 we
        will leave the spec documents cast in the current version of
        the OGSI spec. We can be briefed at the data services day
        ... it would be difficult to cast docs in terms of the new
        OGSI spec ...

Susan: I agree ... so we resubmit the documents with updates ...

Norman: deal with as many of the outstanding issues as we can - these
        are orthogonal to the OGSI changes ... difficulty is that we
        will not have a recast version of the spec in March and this
        will have to be done later ....

Susan: maybe we can prepare an informal doc as to how we think things
       will go ... savas took as though some of the constructs that
       the DAIS spec could map. So we could try following that process
       though ...  even if this is not reflected in the documents
       ... how do we play this in the community ...?


Malcolm: we should try to do an impact assesment for march which will
         describe the changes that we need to make our documents and
         plans and provide a set of use cases that

Susan: use Greg's...

Malcolm: thinking of something more specific ... how do we provide an
         interface to a result set....

Norman: could try to provide an impact analysis ... and savas is not
        too far away from having that ... we could allocate time to do
        this ... putting a document hurdle ... savas could help
        contribute to such a thing ... if savas sets the ball rolling
        then people can start contributing to that - an impact
        assessment or a suggestion on how to evolve the specs ... does
        that seem sensible ...

Susan: yes, there are some people that will be interested in this.

Savas: something like this cannot be written before any information is
       made available ...

Susan: presumably after the f2f in January a more informed decision
       could be made ....

Norman: it might be more interesting to decide now so as to allow the
        document holders to see how they spend their time betweenn now
        and then ...

Dave: one thing would be to send an email to the OGSI spec folks and
      ask when the information is going to be made available ...

Savas: Ian foster mailed the GRIP mailing list by a criticism made of
       the IBM/ANL changes to the OGSI spec.... Ian replies that it is
       better for the process to be closed ... ibm has every right to
       do that ..  better for the community to get a complete proposal
       ...  he does suggest that there may be a possibility for parts
       of OGSI to moved to GGF and somewhere else ... no time scales
       mentioned ... sent yesterday ...

Norman: if we ask for time scales we will probably not get an answer
        ...  we are going as fast as possible ... if we continue with
        the proposed strategy we can have coherent sessions on the
        existing spec and have another session regarding how the OGSI
        changes affect dais....

Savas: although we are going to discuss the impact of the new proposal
       ...  there should not be an assumption that these changes will
       be accepted by the Grid community ...

Susan: which makes approach more solution...

Malcolm: which makes the impact analysis all the more relevant ...

Norman: Looking at the other topics - improve the DBOperation
         description ... fair enough ... xml representation for sql
         has an external dependency ...

Susan: not really ... we can do what we like but it would be nice to
       get other groups involved ...

Norman: need to come up with a plan to allocate effort to these areas ...

Susan: is there something similar happening in the XML frong?

Norman: there is possibly less work required for the xml than the
        relational ... there are things that are shared btwn the 2
        specs ...  this is in scope for the parent document ... the
        harder issues are the shared issues ... the relational spec is
        going to be bigger ...

Dave: relational dbms also support xml ... is there work that has to
      go to the metadata side ... we did have an issue about
      duplication of SDEs yesterday ...

--- Meeting moved over to a data area meeting - these are minuted 
    elsewhere by someone else.





