<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>

This is a static archive of the previous Open Grid Forum Redmine content management system saved from host redmine.ogf.org file /dmsf_files/9557?download=14694 at Thu, 27 Oct 2022 08:02:41 GMT
<head>
  <title>Grid Forum User Services -- June 1999 Minutes</title>
         
  <style>
	body {font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;
	background-color: #FFFFFF
	}
	h1,h2,h3,h4 {color: navy;
	}
	h3,h4 {margin-bottom: -1 pt
	}
  </style>
    
  <meta name="description"
 content="Grid Forum User Services Working Group Minutes">
     
  <meta name="keywords" content="Grid Forum, Minutes, MORE INFO HERE">
</head>
  <body bgcolor="#ffffff" topmargin="10" leftmargin="30">
   <!-- BEGIN MAIN BODY -->  
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="540">
  <tbody>
     <tr valign="top">
   <td colspan="4"><br>
      </td>
     </tr>
     <tr valign="top">
       <td><br>
      </td>
       <td colspan="2"><br>
      </td>
       <td align="right"><br>
       </td>
     </tr>
   
  </tbody> 
</table>
       
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="540">
  <tbody>
     <tr valign="bottom">
   <td colspan="4"><br>
      </td>
  </tr>
   <tr valign="top">
   <td width="39"><br>
      </td>
   <td width="1" bgcolor="#333399"><br>
      </td>
   <td width="20" bgcolor="#333399"><br>
      </td>
   <td width="480" bgcolor="#333399"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt=""
 nosave="" border="0" height="1" width="1">
       </td>
  </tr>
    <tr valign="top">
   <td width="39"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="1" width="39">
       </td>
   <td width="1" bgcolor="#333399"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt=""
 nosave="" border="0" height="1" width="1">
       </td>
   <td width="20"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="1" width="5">
       </td>
   <td width="480"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="20" width="20">
   <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">  <!-- text start in 4th cell of the table-->
   </font>       
      <h2><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">First Grid Forum Conference<br>
  User Services Work Group</font></h2>
          
      <pre><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">June 16 to June 18, 1999<br>NASA Ames Research Center<br>Moffett Field, California<br><br><br>June 17 and June 18, Break Out Sessions<br>Co-Chairs: John Towns and Rita Williams<br><br>SUMMARY MINUTES<br><b>Proposed Purpose</b>

As representation from the participating grids was <a
 href="../Presentations/990617/index.html">heavily<br>weighted with NASA staff</a>, only a preliminary statement<br>of purpose was entertained. Recognizing that a group dealing <br>with user support issues within a grid environment will not <br>produce standards in the conventional sense of the word, the<br>proposed purpose focuses on providing an aspect of user<br>advocacy to the other Grid Forum work groups.<br><br>The proposed purpose for this groups is then:<br><br>* Recommend and/or provide input to other related <br>  work groups:<br>  - infrastructure<br>  - wide-area event management<br>  - end-to-end performance analysis, specifically<br>    metrics<br>  - advance reservations<br>  - wide-area I/O<br>  - security<br><br><br><b>Deliverables</b>

Again, generating standards in a traditional context will
not be a product of this work group. However, identifying
required user/support services and developing a set
of "rules of engagement" is a critical component to 
forming a effective grid environment.

In relation to those functions common to all user services 
within and across grids:
  - diagnostics
  - tracking (user and help-desk/consultants)
  - system status
  - documentation (web-based)
  - training
  - consulting services
This working group will provide:
  - a set of guidelines for participation
  - a checklist of requirements based on these
    guidelines
  - an on-going dialogue between user services and
    other related work groups


<b>Short Term Goals</b>

* Identify other representatives from other grids
  - Possible candidates: Jim Ferguson, NCSA
                         Jay Boisseau, SDSC
                         Bill Asbury, ASC
  - Poll presenters from remaining grids attending 
    the forum for interest

* Establish a mail list for User Services Work Group (WG)

* Arrange for BOFs at HPDC-8 Symposium in August
  and at SC99 in Portland; arrange a teleconference  
  for those who cannot attend physically

* What we want to accomplish by:
  - HPDC-8 Symposium, August 4-6, Redondo Beach, CA
    + Possibly have a BOF at the symposium, arrange
      for teleconference capabilities for those who 
      will not be able to attend physically
    + Roll up what we've discussed at this meeting
      and send a summary to current/potential WG 
      members via e-mail or post to the Grid Forum 
      web site
  - October Grid Forum in Chicago, IL
    + Build a WG organization and have charter in place
    + Hold WG meetings to move forward with forming
      short/long term goals
    + Recruit an individual from each of the other WGs 
      who will participate in that WG and also provide
      a user services perspective; formalize the 
      flow of information to/from the other WGs 
      and the User Services WG

* Preliminary Guideline (Grid and inter-Grid)
  - Provide directory of support services and define
    the required minimum
  - Define single point of contact which would 
    "funnel" support issues to other sites
  - Define hours of support coverage
  - Publish "resources" to be provided in MDS;
    agree upon a "profile" based on individual
    site, user &amp; grid needs/availability


<b>Participants</b>

See also <a
 href="../Presentations/GFUS.990617.html">the PowerPoint page</a> with participants. <br><br>Evans Craig, Albuquerque HPC Center<br>Sridhar Gullapalli, Globus<br>Mary Hultquist, NASA ARC/MRJ<br>George Myers, NASA ARC/Sterling<br>Chuck Niggley, NASA ARC/MRJ<br>Judith Utley, NASA ARC/MRJ-ERDC MSRC<br>Rita Williams, NASA ARC/MRJ<br>Bill Zilliox, DoD MSRC/ASC<br><br></font></pre>
           
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
       </font></p>
       
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
       </font></p>
       
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
   	   <!-- END info--> <font size="1" color="#bbbbbb">   </font></font></p>
       
      <hr width="75%" align="center">        
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><font size="1"
 color="#bbbbbb">Please send edits or updates for this working group to 
      <a href="mailto:virginia@ncsa.uiuc.edu">virginia@ncsa.uiuc.edu</a>.
 </font></font></p>
       
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><font size="1"
 color="#bbbbbb">posted 13 December 1999 </font></font></p>
       
      <p>  </p>
       </td>
     </tr>
     
  </tbody> 
</table>
  <br>
 <br>
</body>

This is a static archive of the previous Open Grid Forum Redmine content management system saved from host redmine.ogf.org file /dmsf_files/9557?download=14694 at Thu, 27 Oct 2022 08:02:41 GMT
</html>
