<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>

This is a static archive of the previous Open Grid Forum Redmine content management system saved from host redmine.ogf.org file /dmsf_files/9544?download= at Thu, 27 Oct 2022 06:46:53 GMT
<head>
  <title>Grid Forum User Services -- March 2000 meeting minutes</title>
         
  <style>
	body {font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;
	background-color: #FFFFFF
	}
	h1,h2,h3,h4 {color: navy;
	}
	h3,h4 {margin-bottom: -1 pt
	}
  </style>
    
  <meta name="description"
 content="Grid Forum User Services Working Group Minutes">
     
  <meta name="keywords"
 content="Grid Forum, Minutes, San Diego meeting, Grid Forum 3, 
group purpose, User Services, GF-WG">
</head>
<body bgcolor="#ffffff" topmargin="10" leftmargin="30">
<!-- BEGIN MAIN BODY -->     
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="620">
   
</table>
 
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="540">
  <tbody>
     <tr valign="top">
   <td colspan="4"><img src="../GFlogo.html" alt="">
       </td>
     </tr>
     <tr valign="top">
       <td><br>
       </td>
       <td colspan="2"><br>
       </td>
       <td align="right"><br>
       </td>
     </tr>
   
  </tbody> 
</table>
       
<table border="0" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0" width="540">
  <tbody>
     <tr valign="bottom">
   <td colspan="4"><br>
       </td>
  </tr>
   <tr valign="top">
   <td width="39"><br>
       </td>
   <td width="1" bgcolor="#333399"><br>
       </td>
   <td width="20" bgcolor="#333399"><br>
       </td>
   <td width="480" bgcolor="#333399"><br>
       </td>
  </tr>
    <tr valign="top">
   <td width="39"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="1" width="39">
       </td>
   <td width="1" bgcolor="#333399"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt=""
 nosave="" border="0" height="1" width="1">
       </td>
   <td width="20"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="1" width="5">
       </td>
   <td width="480"><img src="../dot-clear.html" alt="" nosave=""
 border="0" height="20" width="20">
   <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">  <!-- text start in 4th cell of the table-->
  </font>       
      <h2><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">GF-User Services Working Group<br>
  Minutes from March 2000 Meetings</font></h2>
          
      <div class="Section1">         
      <p class="MsoNormal"><!--[if !supportEmptyParas]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;<!--[endif]--><o:p></o:p></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Initial 1-hour 
meeting, 3/22/00</font></p>
            
      <p class="MsoNormal"
 style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><!--[if !supportLists]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">-<span
 style="font-family: &quot;Times New Roman&quot;; font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-size: 7pt; line-height: normal; font-stretch: normal; font-size-adjust: none;">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
       </span><!--[endif]-->Covered the working description of the group
developed last meeting.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Asked for comments from
old and new attendees.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Consensus was to leave
the description unchanged.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"
 style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><!--[if !supportLists]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">-<span
 style="font-family: &quot;Times New Roman&quot;; font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-size: 7pt; line-height: normal; font-stretch: normal; font-size-adjust: none;">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
       </span><!--[endif]-->Jim Ferguson volunteered as Secretary.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"
 style="margin-left: 0.25in; text-indent: -0.25in;"><!--[if !supportLists]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">-<span
 style="font-family: &quot;Times New Roman&quot;; font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-size: 7pt; line-height: normal; font-stretch: normal; font-size-adjust: none;">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
       </span><!--[endif]-->Covered the working set of goals.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>Three goals are 1) Identify services and tools for 
support staff and end-users; 2) Build a clearinghouse containing information 
about the grid; 3) Assume role as support staff/end-user advocate.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Discussion 
of goals:<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Perhaps we should add as a goal to have
liaisons with each of the other groups.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>We had
volunteers last meeting but no list was made.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Added 
fourth goal of<span style="">&nbsp; </span>&#8220;Create liaison roles to GF WGs&#8221;.</font></p>
           
      <p class="MsoNormal"><span style=""><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp; </font></span><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Volunteers taken to serve as liasons--</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Account management:<span style="">&nbsp; 
     </span>Steve Quinn</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Apps &amp; Tools:<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Chuck 
Niggley</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Information:<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Sarita 
Salm</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Grid Performance:<span style="">&nbsp; </span></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Security:<span style="">&nbsp; </span>George 
Myers</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Programming Models:<span style="">&nbsp; 
     </span></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Scheduling:<span style="">&nbsp; </span></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal" style="margin-left: 0.5in;"><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Remote Data Access:<span style="">&nbsp; 
     </span>Jim Ferguson</font></p>
           
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">General discussion 
on some specific things that we might want to do, but sort of outside the 
role a goal list and more into projects.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Also, 
how do we &#8220;roll out&#8221; or publicize the services now available, including training 
and individual project bootstrapping.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Added &#8220;evangelize 
GF externally&#8221; to third goal.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Discussed 
adding user interfaces/portals to our goals somehow.<span style="">&nbsp; 
      </span>User Services needs to influence some of the content included 
in user portals now being developed.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>A suggestion 
was made that we need to step back first and perhaps do a &#8220;glossary&#8221; of some 
sort to help educate newer grid users.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>For some 
definitions we would have to do an RFC type document, since there would be 
some disagreement among the &#8220;best&#8221; definition for various term we netheads 
use.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>An RFC or definition of what is &#8220;highly
desirable&#8221; in a user portal from user services point of view should be discussed.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Collecting 
support models from different communities was thought to be useful, perhaps 
pointing toward an informational RFC.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>How PACI 
partners, NASA, DoE, etc. support their users should be conglomerated and 
sifted for common elements.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Another comment 
was made that the User Services WG should be the main conduit for finding 
the means to get information to the external world.<span style="">&nbsp; 
     </span>This might be what we do with the Clearinghouse, which is noted 
under goal #2.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>At least the information will be
at home there.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Workshops, etc., would not be
originated with the GF (at least initially), but might be promoted or jointly
sponsored, etc.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>George Brett described the NLANR
Clearinghouse project that he is heading.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Day #2 agenda 
was presented.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>There was a suggestion of monthly 
teleconferences to discuss progress and raise issues amongst group. </font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><!--[if !supportEmptyParas]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;<!--[endif]--><o:p></o:p></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><strong>March 
23, 2000, Extended Meeting</strong></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><!--[if !supportEmptyParas]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;<!--[endif]--><o:p></o:p></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><span style=""><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;</font></span><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Attending:<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Rita 
Williams(co-chair), John Towns(co-chair), Jim Ferguson, George Brett, Steve 
Quinn, Glenn Bresnahan, Laura Nett-Carrington, Chuck Niggley, George Myers, 
Greg Cates, Sarita Salm, Ethan Alpert, Judith Utley, Mark Trobian, Aon Tesani, 
Aram Kevorkian, Ed Hanna, Keith Thompson, Leigh Ann Tanner, Sridhar Gullapalli</font></p>
           
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Rita recapped 
our group description and goals.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Went over agenda:</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><!--[if !supportEmptyParas]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;<!--[endif]--><o:p></o:p></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><span style=""><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
      </font></span><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Charlie Catlett added:<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>Do we need a User Services WG?</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><span style=""><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
      </font></span><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Outline work needed 
to be done for each of the goals</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><span style=""><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
      </font></span><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Define a deliverable 
for each of the goals</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><span style=""><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
      </font></span><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Roll up the outlined 
work and deliverable for each goals into a task area</font></p>
           
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Do we need 
a WG for User Services?<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Spirited debate for over 
one hour.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><span style=""><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
      </font></span><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Charlie C. pointed 
out that perhaps we in the User Services need to be more deeply involved in
the other working groups, to the point of giving up the &#8220;working group&#8221; title/function
for User Services.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>This might be done by providing
an alternate forum for this group to get together to allow the member to
spread out into the other working groups.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>This
would be a way to be involved in all the other WG, and still come together
to do specific User Services tasks we want to accomplish.<span style="">&nbsp;
      </span>J.Towns opined that none of the goals outlined the previous
day were so imperative that we should sacrifice the opportunity to participate
in all of the other WG as user advocates.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Also
we would keep a role as reviewer of other WG RFC&#8217;s to provide comment from
the user perspective.<span style="">&nbsp;       </span>R.Williams agreed
with the points put forth by Catlett and Towns, but pointed out that User
Services as a venue for solving users&#8217; problems and solving support tools
issues for support staff is quite important as well.<span style="">&nbsp;
      </span>G.Brett talked about higher education users waiting for things
to come together from the Grid Builders and waiting to jump in.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>He says to expect an exponential increase in less
sophisticated Grid users soon after many of the pieces go into place for
using the Grid effectively.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Williams does not
think we can do both&#8212;getting involved w/other WG and focused User Services 
issues.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Another opinion put forward was that perhaps
these two activities are separated, as in pre-production and production.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>S.Salm pointed out that a User Services function is
needed even in pre-production to report back problems with the early release 
of the Grid environment.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Towns put forth that 
we are not a Grid US Organization for all grids, but a loose organization 
that would share experiences.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>S.Quinn said that 
we should lay out a framework for reporting and interacting with each other&#8217;s 
individual grids.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Catlett indicated that he thinks 
the Grid Forum user services people are not here to sharpen their user services 
skills or methods, but to learn how the Grid World works at the development 
level in the other WG&#8217;s.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Williams pointed out
 that you need to address the user services issues before the Grid goes &#8220;production&#8221;,
 and Catlett agreed, but felt user services people needed to have a better
 understanding of the underlying technology to address the user services
issues.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Catlett pointed 
out that many persons even in HPC centers have little idea of what the Grid 
will mean to their future work.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Another participant 
suggested that the user services WG be in a position to educate new contributors 
to the Grid Forum.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Catlett pointed out that there
 are no current consultants answering phone at HPC centers that have used 
Grids, like they have used HPC.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Towns suggested 
we still need to meet outside the other WG&#8217;s, to exchange information and 
perhaps create recommendations to each WG on which directions they need to
 go to assist users in making the Grid easier to use.<span style="">&nbsp; 
      </span>Williams worries about our recommendation having &#8220;teeth&#8221; with 
the other working group chairs.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Catlett pointed 
out that the recommendations would be better received if the person was working 
within the group to begin with, and perhaps shouldn&#8217;t be the reason we get 
together.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Catlett asked for a show of hands from 
the gathered working group to see how many were &#8220;closely involved&#8221; in one 
or more other working groups.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Approximately 75% 
responded positively to this query.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>This fact 
impressed Catlett, along with the group&#8217;s passion to stay a Grid Forum WG.</font></p>
          
      <hr width="50%" size="1" color="#00CCFF">        
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Eat pizza.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>Reconvene.</font></p>
         
      <hr width="50%" size="1" color="#00CCFF">         
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">J.Towns says 
we should search for something we can do that&#8217;s important right now.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>We decided to re-couch our goals, replacing the ones 
we had before.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Our previous goals were labeled 
as &#8220;visions&#8221; instead of goals.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Ideas for 
goals tossed about by G.Myers and R.Williams.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Producing 
a best practice document.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Producing a collection 
of information from the other working group&#8217;s actions, especially those that 
relate to traditional user services type issues (accounting, security, etc.).<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>Debating whether or not we need to do best practice 
for current non-grid type user services.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Collecting 
a future practices document (identifying user services issues) for Grid user 
services.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Perhaps building a clearinghouse of 
tools and other useful information that Grid user services staff would need/use 
to support users would be a good goal.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Debating 
being a central clearinghouse of documents of the Grid Forum.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>Is this worthwhile?<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Some 
utility is seen in providing this central location for WG drafts.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>Discussing making a liaison&#8217;s role as keeping up with
new drafts of RFC&#8217;s etc. appearing on web pages of other WG&#8217;s.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">We went over 
roles for liaisons.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>Rita notes 4 possible projects.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>John says we should concentrate on only 1 or 2 of 
these projects ahead of next meeting.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>There is 
general agreement to this view.<span style="">&nbsp; </span>G.Bresnahan makes 
a pitch to do a future practices type document first, in order to show the 
other WG&#8217;s what will be needed from their groups for Grid user services.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>We also agreed that we could pretty easily knock off
what our current practices are in another document.<span style="">&nbsp; 
     </span>Next, we discussed bringing together a web page of links to useful
stuff.</font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><!--[if !supportEmptyParas]--><font
 face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">&nbsp;<!--[endif]--><o:p></o:p></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">Action items:<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span></font></p>
          
      <p class="MsoNormal"><font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica">George Myers 
volunteered to do a straw man outline of current practices.<span
 style="">&nbsp; </span>When complete, representatives from other organizations 
will respond to the outline with their practices and they will be wrapped 
into the proposed document.</font></p>
   </div>
             
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
       </font></p>
       
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
       </font></p>
       
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><br>
   	   <!-- END info--> <font size="1" color="#bbbbbb">   </font></font></p>
       
      <hr width="75%" align="center">        
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><font size="1"
 color="#bbbbbb">Please send edits or updates for document to  <a
 href="mailto:ferguson@ncsa.uiuc.edu">ferguson@ncsa.uiuc.edu</a>.  </font></font></p>
       
      <p> <font face="Verdana,Arial,Helvetica"><font size="1"
 color="#bbbbbb">06 April 2000 </font></font></p>
       
      <p>  </p>
       </td>
     </tr>
     
  </tbody> 
</table>
  <br>
 
</body>

This is a static archive of the previous Open Grid Forum Redmine content management system saved from host redmine.ogf.org file /dmsf_files/9544?download= at Thu, 27 Oct 2022 06:46:54 GMT
</html>
