OGSA Teleconference - 10 July 2006
==================================

* Participants

  Pete Ziu (Northrop Grumman)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)

* June 29 minutes approved with no changes
* July 6 minutes approved with no changes

* Action review

  [Only items with updates are listed.]

** Jay will look into getting a room at downtown D.C. for the B2B F2F
   after GGF18
   - Sent room request; waiting for reply
   - Do not know if facilities have internet connection

** Hiro will ask Pete Ziu to check if it is possible to reserve a room
   at Northrop Grumman for the B2B F2F after GGF18
   - Sent room request; waiting for reply.
   - Do not know if facilities have internet connection

** Hiro will send out an email outlining the proposal and aim to
   confirm it on the next call
   - Hiro submitted a request for 4 sessions. Closed.

** Andreas to upload the sequence diagrams to Gridforge.
   - This was closed last time.

* OGSA-15: F2F session update

  - Ellen has a conflict most of Monday since she has to attend a DMTF
    TC meeting. She can be available only between 8:30-10:30am on
    Monday.
  - There are only a few possibilities since many people (Jay, Dave,
    Andrew, etc) will not be available Tuesday afternoon and
    Wednesday, and there are people dialling in from Europe for the
    morning sessions.

  ACTION: Hiro & Andreas will look into re-arranging the Monday and
          Tuesday morning sessions. 

  Plan is to confirm schedule on Thursday's call, including other
  logistics.

* Information model discussion

  - Jay has talked with a number of people (Andrew, Chris). There is
    no write up from Miron.
  - If there is agreement (seems likely) that the internal
    representation of both a schema-based approach and a schema-less
    approach will or can be the same the question is whether there is
    anything that can be expressed with the second approach that
    cannot be expressed with the first. Jay claimed that Ellen's
    hierarchical (Resource, capability) rendering example has such a
    feature. Other people disagreed.
  - This discussion will continue at the F2F.

  ACTION: Jay will provide a document summarizing the advantages of
          the schema-less approach for discussion at the F2F.

* Roadmap update

  Chris Jordan gave an update on the Roadmap activities: 
  - Bi-weekly conference calls have been started with a small core
    group. Next call this Wednesday.
    - Reviewing trackers this week
  - Will be contacting persons that can provide Roadmap entries
  - Mike Behrens wil be writing up a short document on underlying WS
    standards
  - The Introduction will be re-written to de-link it from other
    document publications since the Roadmap will be published
    periodically and should therefore stand alone.
  - Have started a wiki space (blank page at the moment).

* Security discussion: Postponed to Thursday & conditional on progress
* CDDLM & EMS: Postponed to Thursday & conditional on progress
