OGSA Teleconference - 21 September 2006
=======================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Alan Sill (TTU)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Duane Merrill (UVa)
  Tom Maguire (EMC)
  An Ly (CA)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Donal Fellows (UoM)
  Abdeslem Djaoui (RL)
  Fred Brisard (CA)
  Mike Berhens (R2AD, LLC)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  AI-0921a: Andreas to ask Greg to setup a tracker for change requests
            to the OGF template document.

  AI-0921b: Security members to discuss the BoF proposal(s) further
            - For example, one outcome could be some standards
              activity to mirror CAOPS activities and tie-in to OGSA

  AI-0921c: Dave S (as Standards VP) to talk to the next
            Security AD (when one is selected) about the Security Area
            task list.

  AI-0921d: Dave S to collect additional material in order to identify
            security issues better.
            - (AI-0921e is an issue instance)

  AI-0921e: Alan S to provide material on the issues relating to
            path validation.

  AI-0921f: Dave S to ask Richard C to put the security topic
            on the agenda of the first Interoperability call and to
            also ask that the teleconference announcements be sent to
            the OGSA list

  AI-0921g: Hiro to add Alan Sill to the OGSA-WG list

  AI-0921h: Hiro to allocate a slot to review security work progress
            at a future call. Perhaps Oct 5.

  AI-0921i: Dave S to provide an agenda for the next security call.
            - Draft agenda items:
              - What needs to be done to achieve simple interop
                generally and to bootstrap more
              - Profile to get authentication information from a
                secure channel for authentication
              - Profile for other methods to get authentication
                informatin for authorization

* September 7 teleconference minutes approved with no changes

* Review of Action Items 

  - AI-0912a: Hiro will be arranging the first call next
              Monday. (Close after Monday call.)
  - AI-0913a: Andreas to put issue in the EMS Scenarios tracker and
              close this action
  - AI-0913b: Pending.
  - AI-0913c: Andreas to put issue in the EMS Scenarios tracker and
              close this action
  - AI-0913d: Closed.
              - Done at GGF18. 
  - AI-0913e: Andreas to put issue in the EMS Scenarios tracker and
              close this action
  - AI-0913f: Andreas to put issue in the EMS Scenarios tracker and
              close this action
  - AI-0913g: Pending.
  - AI-0914a: Pending.
              - Review all EMS Scenarios actions at the next document
                review. (No need to review every call.)
              - The next EMS Scenarios review call is not set
                yet. Andreas and Hiro will discuss it offline.
  - AI-0914b: Pending. 
              - Discussion on the mission of the Security design team
                is part of this call.
  - AI-0914c: See AI-0914d. 
  - AI-0914d: Closed.
              - Andrew has started working on new text for the
                Appendix. This AI belongs to the BES WG. 
  - AI-0914e: Closed.
              - Andrew has initiated this activity. Richard Ciapala
                (MS) has taken over this activity.
  - AI-0914f: Pending
              - Proposal is Florida (Tampa or Orlando) the week before
                SC06.
              - Fred Brisard is inquiring about hotels in Tampa. He
                expects to have results (3-4 proposals) by next week.
              - Hiro will do the zoomerang after that
  - AI-0915a: Pending. 
              - This was specific to experiences of people
                implementing BPEL and JSDL.
  - AI-0907a: Obsolete; Closed.
  - AI-0907b: Pending. 
              - This has to be done before the Security profiles can
                go to final call.
  - AI-0907c: Pending.
  - AI-0907d: Pending on AI-0907b and AI-0907c
  - AI-0907e: Closed.
              - Already added to template.

              AI-0921a: Andreas to ask Greg to setup a tracker for
                        change requests to the OGF template document.

  - AI-0907f: Closed.
              - The BaseFaults issues were discussed at the last F2F.
              - The minutes of this session were uploaded after the
                agenda of this call. There are an additional 4 actions
                (2 on BF).
   - AI-0831c: Closed.
               - Put in EMS Scenarios tracker. 
   - AI-0831d: Closed
               - Put in EMS Scenarios tracker. 
   - AI-0831e: Pending.
   - AI-0831f: Pending.
   - AI-0831g: Closed.
               - Andreas set up EMS Scenarios tracker. 
   - AI-0831h: Closed
               - Mark sent the document out before GGF18. 
   - AI-0828a: Closed.
               - Initial discussion clarified that this action is
                 about annotating EPRs
               - Frank has looked into it. The recently released
                 WS-Metadata Exchange specification shows (examples
                 of) how this annotation can be done. The approach
                 should be applicable here.
               - Initially this issue was specifically about adding
                 porttype information but WS-MetadataExchange shows
                 how any kind of information may be embedded.
               - (Dave S) There is non-normative text in the
                 WS-Addressing Core specification (sec. 2.2, under
                 endpoint Metadata extensibility) that refers to
                 examples on how to include wsldLocation
                 information. This is sufficient and there is no need
                 to use the WS-MetadataExchange spec.
               - There were questions about the status of the
                 WS-MetadataExchange specification. It is not in a
                 standards body yet. It is covered by the recent MS
                 open licence announcement.
               - Is this issue covered by the WSRF BP? Yes.
  - AI-0817a: Pending.
              - This was not not discussed at GGF18 or at the F2F.
              - There has not been much progress
              - Jay will talk with Dave Berry on how to proceed
              - Hiro will schedule this topic on a future call in 1-2
                weeks time.
  - AI-0810a: Closed
              - Subsumed by AI-0913g
  - AI-0803e: Pending
  - AI-0803f: Pending

  - EGR-WG (Ravi) will contact Geoffrey Fox and invite him to
    contribute use cases.
               - Pending

  - Andreas to go through the minutes and formulate a reply mail to
    Geoffrey on each artifact covered in these minutes.
               - Pending

  - Steve McGough & Andreas to do a mapping from the current JSDL
    elements / terminology into the new information model structure
    (Proposed split into Description and Requirements) (from July 18th
    F2F, By GGF18 as original discussed.)
    - Done at the F2F. Closed.

* GGF18 and F2F meeting discussion

  - Event went quite smoothly.
  - A good set of specs are coming to completion; felt like many
    things are finally getting done. There are lots of implementations
    (of BES, etc) including from MS. The interoperability activity was
    started and looking forward to the results.
  - There was no chance to cover some issues, like the relationship
    between OGSA Security work and other (OGF) security work. But this
    is on the agenda of this call.

** Minutes approval

  - Information Model Minutes (two) (Fred M)--approved with no changes
  - EGA Reference Model (one) (Andreas)--approved with no changes
  - EMS Scenarios (one) (Hiro)--approved with no changes
  - F2F minutes, Thursday (Michel D)--approved with no changes
  - F2F minutes, Friday 
    1. (Michel D)--approved with no changes
    2. (Andreas)--approval postponed for next week because there was
       insufficient time to review them before the call.

  - All the material is believed to have been uploaded. Let the
    chairs/secretary know if anything is missing.

* Security Profile review postponed

* OGSA security 

  Led by Dave Snelling.

  OGSA security work has produced two security profiles (Core and
  Secure Channel). Both are close to publication. One question is what
  should be the next work items of the design team.

  The HPC Profile interoperability work is probably facing an
  immediate problem since there is no profiled way to pass the
  required identity credentials for job submission. There is a gap in
  authentication---the OGSA security profiles only go as far as
  defining a secure channel.

  Therefore a short-term work proposal is to identify what the next
  minimal use cases are and to produce profiles to address them.  The
  result could be a profile on how to do authentication. (There is no
  OGSA-AuthN group.)

  From a broader perspective there are a number of security groups
  (FI-RG, OGSA-AuthZ-WG, TC-RG) and a lot of good work has been done
  already. But it is not clear what the connections are.

  Alan Sill said that the CAOPS-WG has also been very active. CAOPS
  has been somewhat incorrectly categorized as operations; it does in
  fact also do design work and should have a connection to OGSA.
  (There are some worries that the practice of academic users may be
  getting decoupled from broader OGSA work.) The group was spawned by
  the Grid PMAs--which also formed IGTF. IGTF's purpose is
  authentication in a federated infrastructure.

  The CAOPS-WG was created to cover specific needs of educational
  organizations--bridging between organizations. It is not clear how
  this work links to the commercial world. (Commercial CAs are in the
  business of issuing server certs; EDUs for identity.)  A main driver
  has been the federal government---driving use by requiring (path
  validation) by legislative means.
  - Peter Alterman @NIH Federal Bridge: runs commercial solution

  Is a lot of the work still around plain x.509 certificates? No, VOMS
  uses extended attribute certificates.
  - A higher level view is that x.509 certificates with SAML
    assertions seem to satisfy most requirements
  - It is not clear how industry views attribute extensions

  One issue is to identify what is needed for web (grid) services.  A
  lot of existing (or pursued) approaches (CAS, Kerberos, etc) in
  other bodies are done without reference to specific Web services
  requirements.

  A number of different approaches for authentication were mentioned:
  - vanila x.509
  - x.509 extensions
  - EPI based identity (UVA)
  - 'pure' SAML (identity is just another assertion)

  What is the current OGSA level? 
  - Use of x509 certificates to establish a secure channel between
    client/server. There is mutual authentication between client and
    server.

  If a single CA is used for tests is it enough? And could it be
  extended later to support bridging?
  - The weak point is atribute extension and path validation;
    otherwise it works for the small case.
  - For the (small) base case it is sufficient to have copies of the
    base root certificates and be able to check whole chain (including
    checking all additions; so it is simpler not to allow
    additions). This setup is enough for basic interop but it is
    really functionality that has been available for the past 10
    years.
  - Bridging is actually a lot more complicated.

  Another possibility for future work is to define a standardized path
  validation i/f that hides the operations behind, which are quite
  complex.
  - But this may be longer term work. It goes beyond current
    interoperability work.
  - Alan mentioned a number of people that might be worth including in
    such a discussion.
  - Frank proposed doing a BoF for such a path validation i/f and also
    proposed Alan Sill as a good person to lead it.

  For the Interoperability workshop one could arrange for an IGTF
  accredited CA; install it on both sides. (It has the advantage of
  also plugging in the federal infrastructure.)
  - It is not clear if such a setup would be acceptable to all
    participants. 
  - It is not clear whether the use of the OGSA security profiles is
    going to be acceptable either.
  - Interoperability calls are being planned and this issue should be
    taken up there.
  - Richard Ciapala (richci 'at' microsoft.com) is organizing the
    interoperability work/calls.
  
  AI-0921b: Security members to discuss the BoF proposal(s) further
            - For example, one outcome could be some standards
              activity to mirror CAOPS activities and tie-in to OGSA

  AI-0921c: Dave S (as Standards VP) to talk to the next
            Security AD (when one is selected) about the Security Area
            task list.

  AI-0921d: Dave S to collect additional material in order to identify
            security issues better.
            - (AI-0921e is an issue instance)

  AI-0921e: Alan S to provide material on the issues relating to
            path validation.

  AI-0921f: Dave S to ask Richard C to put the security topic
            on the agenda of the first Interoperability call and to
            also ask that the teleconference announcements be sent to
            the OGSA list

  AI-0921g: Hiro to add Alan Sill to the OGSA-WG list

  AI-0921h: Hiro to allocate a slot to review security work progress
            at a future call. Perhaps Oct 5.

  AI-0921i: Dave S to provide an agenda for the next security call.
            - Draft agenda items:
              - What needs to be done to achieve simple interop
                generally and to bootstrap more
              - Profile to get authentication information from a
                secure channel for authentication
              - Profile for other methods to get authentication
                informatin for authorization
