OGSA Teleconference - 9 March 2005
==================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Takuya Mori (NEC / ANL)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Saga Kazushige (NII)
  Soonwook Hwang (NII)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Karl Czajkowski (Univa)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Apologies: Tom Maguire

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* GGF13 session preparation

  - Dave B does not have enough time to prepare for a data profile
    discussion (session 5). Re-assign.

  - EGA has reviewed OGSA version 1.0 documents and has sent us
    feedback. We should review and answer their questions.
    - Hiro to forward the review to the list
    - Proposal to use session 5 to review and reply to this document.
    - UK e-Science is part of EGA. Steve Newhouse has taken part in
      some meetings and might be able to provide more information on
      this review.

  - Naming BoF
    - Manuel P will have another draft of RNS by Friday morning. He will
      send it to Andrew.
    - Andrew will send it out to the list.
    - No discussion on who the co-chairs might be. Manuel is one
      possibility but he has not been asked yet.

** EM Profile proposal

   - Workflow is mentioned but should it be in the basic profile or in
     a more advanced profile?
     - Not sure which language (BPEL?) should be used. No concrete
       proposal.
     - Basic requirement could be dependency based, e.g., multiple
       dependent jobs
       - But what kind of dependencies are we talking about?
         - Aggregation, choreography, or stepwise dependencies
       - Perhaps mainly aggregation
     - Consensus that simple grouping of jobs is probably as far as
       the Basic EM profile could go.

   - WS-Agreement date: it is the one of the public comment draft

   - Would ACS be part of a Basic EM profile? 
     - ACS and CDDLM represent more advanced functionality, so
       probably not.

   - Naming
     - Maybe end of year is an achievable date. Depending on who
       participates.
     - Andrew has had some contact with people at MS. He will look
       into the possibility of getting an MS person as co-chair. To be
       discussed at the BoF.

   - General agreement with Figure showing BES and WS-Agreement as
     layered.

   - Examples:
     - JSDL element: mentioned just to fill in a gap; Ideally it would
       be part of a specification.
     - Credentials and accounting would also be some things to include
       in such a profile (to round it out)

   - Therefore consider adding the following candidate specs:
     - UR-WG and RUS-WG as other candidates for monitoing and
       reporting resource usage.
       - Check the status of these specs: Perhaps follow up by
         emailing the ADs

   Action: Hiro to update the presentation and present at the EM
           profile session.
   
   - Invite all relevant people to attend.
   - Naregi participants may also want to make a presentation in this
     session as well as the EMS session. 
