OGSA Teleconference - 1 June 2005
=================================

* Participants

  Mike Berhens (R2AD, LLC)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC, ANL)
  Kazushige Saga (NAREGI)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* OGSA chair nomination

  Tom is waiting for approval from management. No problems so far.

* Roadmap document update

  Submit any new text to Jem using the latest draft to simplify
  merging.

* May F2F (London) review

  It was very good meeting, not just for OGSA-WG but also for BES-WG,
  DATA-WG, ByteIO-WG.

** Minutes review
   
   A number of corrections to the minutes were submitted from Hiro.
   Minutes approved with the following modifications.

** Day 1 minutes
   
   - "Application manager" should probably be "Job manager." But the
     minutes are correct since the term "Application Manager" was used
     in the meeting. Agreed to add a note for completeness.
   - Profiles are from WS-I not W3C
   - SMIS should be SNIA
   - WSDM refers to two different WS-Addressing versions
   - There are two basic profile definition sections. The first should
     be 'profile definition' instead.
   - Question on plan to update BP 1.0? Not sure of context. Delete
     from minutes.
   - Consensus was to take RR out of BP 1.0.
     - [There is followup from Frank on list; discussed as a separate
       issue under "Resilient References" below.]

** Day 2 minutes

   - One action is listed twice. Delete the duplicate.
   - NaReGi should be NAREGI
   - Timing for RNS document handover; the minutes are correct but
     there are a number of problems discussed as followup issues under
     "Naming charter" below.

* Naming charter
 
  - There seems to be some discrepancy between what was discussed at
    the F2F and the GFS-WG's thinking about the RNS specification.
  - GFS believes that they should followup through public comment and
    publication to GWD-P-R.
    - Therefore the Naming WG proposed charter would have to be
      revised. (Steve Crumb has not received the Naming draft charter
      yet.)
    - There is probably some confusion here. Agreed that the
      interested parties should arrange a separate call to clear
      things up.
       
  Action: Andrew to arrange a call with Hiro, Osamu, Manuel.
  Action: Andrew to send draft charter once the RNS document
          issue is cleared up.

* Resilient References (RR) 

  The main concern with taking the resilient references out of the
  WSRF Basic Profile and into the Naming Profile is the timing of the
  release of the naming profile. There is strong desire to have this
  functionality available sooner rather than later.

  Also, as long as abstract names are not required by the rebinding
  protocol then in the simplest case it is "rebind an EPR"; and should
  not require this function to be tied to the naming specification.
  There was an assertion that if all the information for the rebinding
  is put in the EPR then there is only one way of doing it. The
  opposite argument was also made that there are many different ways
  and do not want to over-constrain the choice by putting this
  function in the WSRF BP. Making an early choice on this in the WSRF
  BP would might cause OGSA to end up having multiple, different, ways
  of doing the same thing.

  (There was also an argument for taking things slowly on this in
  order to get the involvement of MS. There is an ongoing effort to
  get their buy-in.)

  It was agreed that it is unlikely that a resolution could be reached
  during this call. 
  - A separate call or discussion on the list was proposed.
  - Logistically getting the right people on a call within the next
    week seemed impossible.
  - This is a simple issue and it was proposed not to repeat the
    discussion and vote on it instead.
  - It was agreed that GGF does not allow voting at this point and
    that discussion should continue on the list; and possibly on a
    call.

* Teleconference schedule review

  June 15 call: Post-ggf14 discussion

  - Mark can't make the call on June 13
    - Andrew will deliver Mark's ByteIO status report
  - Andrew can't make any calls during June 20-21

  Agreed that the schedule is ok as is.

* Profile Definition document review

** p3 (section 3)

  - Appendices as normative extensions comment
    - There is a discussion of this in section 3.4.
    - Reviewed section and agreed it is appropriate.

** p4 (section 3)
  - Made some clarification on Status types. In particular the
    Evolving standard was renamed to "Evolving *Institutional*
    Standard" and added the requirement that there is an external
    stable link available.
  - also "De-facto" moved to top of the list.

  - Added clarifying text on the meaning of adoption levels: they
    include the previous level, i.e., non-exclusive.

  - Added the EGA provisioning specification as an example. 
    - Does this mean that EGA does standards? It is not clear since we
      do not have access to this specification. It may be just using
      existing standards.

  - Changed the WS-Security reference

** p5 (section 3.2.1)

   - Moved table from appendix and added explanatory text here

   - The Roadmap document should be updated with the new version of
     the table

   - Discussed how to keep tables current and provide consistent
     snapshots in the various documents. There was a suggestion for
     doing the main table in Excel and using OLE links to tables in
     Word.
     - Not sure if that would work out in all situations, for example,
       if there is no local copy of the master table would it have to
       be downloaded and so on

   - Entries should not be a string but a hyperlink or a
     cross-reference within the specification

   - WSDL 1.1 only added for illustration. It is not the intention to
     ask people to describe required specifications to this level of
     detail

   - Table needs a caption. Tom to add.

   - Agreed not use EGA as an example here. It gives the impression
     they do standards. Use some other consortium instead.

     Action: Hiro to find better example of consortium (done)

** p6 (Section 4)

  Added requirement that criteria be made at the time of submission

** p8 (References)

   Tom to check the OGSA Architecture, Glossary, or CMM document on
   how to format references in the way that the GGF Editor requires.
   
   Make citations cross-references in the text, e.g., using bookmarks

   Tom's revision to be picked up by Jem for further editing.

* DMTF CIM

  - Some people would like to read up on CIM, but there are a number
    of different documents and are unsure of where to start. For
    example, is there textual description of what the meaning of the
    various terms are?

  - The MOF files describe semantics and have more information; but
    may not be rigorous enough

  - The white papers may also a good source of extra information

* Next call

  Monday is review of Roadmap and BP
