OGSA Teleconference - 7 June 2007 - Information Services
========================================================

* Attendees:
    - ZackK
    - Ellen Stokes (IBM)
    - Donal Fellows (UoM)
    - Sergio Andreozzi (INFN)
    - Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
    - David Snelling (Fujitsu)
    - Laurence Field (CERN)
    - Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
        - Adrian Toth (Univ of Miskolc)

    Minutes: Hiro Kishimoto

* Summary of New Actions

       - AI-0607c: Laurence will write up (a) small chart of what
         this design team will do (plan or schedule) and, (b)
         generic information services architecture in a simple chart.

* Agenda Bashing

    - No Change

* House keeping:

    - Minutes approval: OK
          o OGF19 EMS
          o March F2F EMS
          o Apr. 12
          o OGF20 Info svc
          o F2F info svc

        - Action Item
          o AI-0511a: Ferenc Szalai to confirm NorduGrid/KnowARC
            participation and potential co-leader of IS design team.
            Adrian Toth volunteers to serve as co-leader: closed

* Aims and Objectives
       - Laurence: What are we trying to achieve?
       - Hiro: Architecture design and interface specification.
       - Ellen: OGSA Arch v1.5 (GFD.80) explains current understanding
                of what is information services for OGSA. It can be
                starting line.

       - Laurence: What are the boundaries and constraints? Are we
                   working group or design team?
       - Hiro: It is now a design team under OGSA-WG. Let's carry on
               technical work as a design team for a while. In parallel
               you can write up proposed charter document for formal WG
               formation. OGF21 can be target date to have charter BoF
               if we can have enough progress.
       - No objection against working as a design team.

* Fundamentals
       - Laurence: What is a general architecture? It should be
                   scalable. I propose to use GMA.
       - Chris: We should learn from R-GMA.
       - Agreed to learn from multiple existing works. Looking at
         exiting systems and bring them together.
       - Hiro: Is info-GIN work useful? They taught us at OGF19.
       - Laurence: Yes it is. I was and am involved in info-GIN work.

       - Laurence: What are the building blocks and critical interfaces?
       - Query interface
       - How about data model? If you have same model, it is very easy
         to inter-operate.
       - We can leverage SRM approach. We keep only basic interface
         defined.
       - What sort of queries people makes?
       - It is schema issue.
       - There are different kind of queries.
       - We have many many services.
       - We should query multiple services.

       - Use cases should be specified to justify key services.
       - Gin-INFO work already identify multiple usecases already.

       - Agreed to specify Query interface.
       - Hiro: In addition to query interface, do we need push or
               notification type interface?
       - Yes.

       - Agreed to study info-d, OGSA doc v1.5 , and R-GMA,
         existing implementations as an first step.
       - We may have more capabilities to define grid interface.

* Next call (June 28)
       - AI-0607c: Laurence will write up (a) small chart of what
         this design team will do (plan or schedule) and, (b)
         generic information services architecture in a simple chart.
