Minutes of the OGSA-D telcon, 27th August 2007


* Roll call

Allen Luniewski, IBM
Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)


The main remaining piece of work is the mapping from operations to data access and SRM standards.


* Architecture Document

We reviewed the changes.  We noted that the definition of Data Consistency needs work.  

THe operation tables are not indented consistently.

We decided to keep Section 15, which needs to be updated.  This should come after the current Section 17.

We agreed to remove the list of properties from the table at the start of the Data Access section.

Dave to accept all the current changes and create a new "current draft".

Allen to ask Hiro and Andreas to review section 3.

Allen to ask Greg to review w.r.t. any further changes needed before submission.



* Work items

2. Chapter 2 needs work.  It is a collection of disjoint sections.  The purpose of the chapter is unclear.  We must ensure that all material is where it belongs in this chapter.  [Done]

3. Verify that chapter 3 is still consistent with what OGSA is doing these days [Allen to send to Hiro and Andreas]

4. The comments about policy and data service in 3.7 do not belong in this chapter since they are not OGSA comments but OGSA Data comments.  They probably  belong in a new chapter 5. [Done]

5. We need to rationalize headers in the operation tables that are at the start of chapters [Done]

8. We need to update Appendix 13, Standards [Dave]

9. Chapter 14, Operations, needs to be created once the operations in the document are stable [Easy]

10. Chapter 15, Operation Mapping, needs to be created once the operations in the document are stable. [TBD]

12. The references need to be finished [Done]

14. We need to review current tracker artifacts and either address them in this version of the document or agree to defer them to V2. [All]



DONM: Friday September 7th.



