OGSA Teleconference - 16 January 2007
=====================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Bahareh Rahmanzadeh
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  David Snelling (Fujitsu) (SML review only)
  David Berry (NESC)       (SML review only)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* New action item summary

  AI-0115a: Ellen will send out the link to a DMTF feedback
            template form.

  AI-0115b: Ellen will summarize the review of the DMTF documents and
            review the text at a future call.

* Review of service modeling language introduction 

  Hiro has the slides used by Heather in the previous SML introduction
  session. Send Hiro an email for a copy. These slides should not be
  distributed further.

  Using schematron seems like a nice approach. It helps validate
  constraints but it is done up front. The question is how much should
  be done at validation time versus run time. The rest seems to be a
  repeat of previous modeling and rendering efforts. Using XPath 1.0
  looks like a simplification.

  Agreed that it is important to track this kind of developments while
  continuing work on immediate topics of interest. OGSA/OGF are
  eventual consumer of such technologies and could/should provide
  feedback---through the use cases already gathered---once these specs
  enter the standards process. (Timing is obviously a problem since by
  the time a submission to a standards body is made the specs will be
  more advanced; participating at this point is difficult due to the
  different IPR.)

* Dec 11 2006 minutes - approved with no changes

* Action review - no updates

* Next F2F 

  There is no separate F2F at OGF 19.

  The next F2F is scheduled for March 2007. At the Nov. F2F it was set
  for March 27-29, in the US, probably at SDSC.
  - Andreas has a conflict and asked if it is possible to re-schedule.

  Agreed to discuss the date and place of the March F2F at the next
  call.

* OGF19 sessions

  Hiro will start a wiki page for OGF19 and ask session owners to
  provide their agendas.

* OGF/DMT work register

  - DAIS-WG was approached but provided no feedback. It is assumed
    that they have no problem with the documents.
  - Two documents are of interest to OGSA-WG
    - URI structure for XML representation - a one page document. It
      does not seem controversial.
    - DSP 230: The WS-CIM mapping. There is no plan to use the
      generated schemas directly so there is probably no problem here
      either.
      - Are the actual schemas available? It seems not yet. Ellen is
        following up.
  - How should feedback be provided? There is a feedback template.
   
  AI-0115a: Ellen will send out the link to a DMTF feedback
            template form.

  AI-0115b: Ellen will summarize the review of the DMTF documents and
            review the text at a future call.
            


  

  