OGSA Teleconference - 23 April 2007 - Logistics
===============================================

* Participants

  Andrew Grimshaw  (UVA)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Duane Merrill  (UVA)
  Mark Morgan (UVA)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  ZackK 

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* April 5 Minutes approved with no changes
* April 9 Minutes approved with no changes
* April 19 informal notes approved with no changes

* Action item review

  - AI-0915d: Hiro K will talk with Tom M to clarify what needs to be
    done for this action. Should the group be considering doing an
    errata release, or new minor version (1.1) of the WSRF BP?
  - AI-0314a: Closed
  - AI-0316c: Zoomerang launched. Closed
  - AI-0409a: Closed. (See further discussion in OF20 session agendas
        below)

* OGSA Primer discussion

  - Andrew G has posted a first draft. The suggested content and
    outline look good. The 'primer' title may be temporary, depending
    on the final form of the document.
  - It is still undecided where to publish. Some candidate magazines
    are IEEE Computer, IEEE Internet Computing, Infoworld. Of these
    IEEE Computer has more circulation from IEEE Internet Computing;
    IEEE Internet Computing is probably a better technical fit;
    Inforworld may be a better choice to reach a wider audience,
    especially in Industry, with an interest in new
    technologies/trends.
  - Andrew proposed that the group should consider what the target
    readership should be. One possibility is to do two papers with
    slightly different slants depending on the audience.

  - Some suggestions on content:
    - Add a Data Center use case. This could be based on the original
      OGSA DC use case with contributions from EGA work.
    - Discuss profiles---how OGSA is using web services, for example,
      WSRF BP as infrastructure.
    - In the past it was said that OGSA was rendering neutral. There
      is a strong dependence on Web services but 'neutrality' is still
      relevant because of the provision of multiple (basic) profiles.
  - What specs ar there for OGSA Resource Management? Primarily the
    modeling work that Ellen S is now doing.
  - Andrew G will produce another draft, probably by OGF20,
    highlighting places where more contributors are needed and
    soliciting more contributors, probably at OGF20.
  - More authors/contributors are welcome. But it is probably
    undesirable to have a huge list of authors.
  - Andrew G proposed that Hiro K and Andreas S be listed as
    co-authors due to their significant contribution to the
    group. This was accepted.
  - Chris K volunteered to contribute.

* OGF20 

** Session schedule review

*** Express AuthN session: The title should be updated
*** Profile interop: Agenda is already in place
*** Workflow: needs agenda; Chris K will provide
*** Data modeling: Ellen S is owner; Hiro K will send her an email
*** EMS info service:
   - This session has no formal owner.
   - Discussed whether to cancel it; or what kind of form it might
     take.
   - Agreed that it should be done, perhaps in the style of an ad-hoc
     bof, inviting people to present their thoughts and having an open
     discussion; without necessarily a specific outcome in mind.

   - Andrew G volunteered to do an agenda
     - UVA requirements for Information Services from Genesis II
     - Invite Info-d (Fisher?)
     - Invite GIN-Info (Morris?)

** Group Dinner

  - Chair appreciation is on Wednesday
  - There are receptions on Tuesday and Thursday but there will only
    be light food available.
  - Andrew G and Mark M are leaving Friday and would prefer earlier in
    the week
  - Candidate days: Monday, Tuesday, Thursday

  >> Chose Tuesday for group dinner <<

** OGF20 F2F

  - Rough agenda is posted. Donal has also posted directions to the
    University.
  - Co-chair selection is on the agenda for the F2F. 
    - Is it expected that the final decision will be done at the F2F?
      - Not sure.
    - The group needs to do do some preparation for thsi. Some names
      have been mentioned but the discussion has not progressed
      further. A useful first step would be short-listing candidates.
    - Some people (notably Andrew G and Mark M) will not be present at
      the F2F
    - It was proposed that the selection issue should also be
      discussed during the week, perhaps over dinner, or at some other
      informal occassion.
