Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, 8th December 2006

1) Early discussion:
 
Roll call:
            Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
            Stephen Davey, NeSC
	    Chris Jordan, SDSC
            Dave Berry, NeSC (Note Taker)

Allen Luniewski sent his apologies.
            
Minutes from December 1st call were approved. 
 

2) Action report

Completed and retired actions:

- Dave to prod DMI-WG and GSM-WG re Data Transfer section.  [One reply received from Alex Sim]
- Stephen and Dave to further revise the EMS/Data scenarios and send to Andreas.

Dave to ask OGSA WG, when creating services how do you specify:
-	Lifetime of Service
-	(Storage) Size
-	Default QoS requirements 
-	Default (security) policies
-	Service Location (on which Server say) 
-	Provisioning
[No response other than to say it's an interesting question]

New actions

- Group to discuss Alex Sim's response about data transfer.
- Mario to flesh out discussion of structured and unstructured data access in the new section 7 and to rewrite the appendix to show the mapping.

Ongoing actions:

- Chris to send out second draft of GFS scenario.
- Dave to create or reuse scenario slides for main OGSA slide set.
- Stephen & Dave to review scenarios doc from a storage perspective.
- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)
- Stephen to recheck/update scenarios document following F2F discussions


Sections in architecture document to be edited (plus appropriate bits to be put in appendix 3):
	Overview (section 2) - Dave
	Data Access – DAIS - Mario
	Data Access – ByteIO - Mario
	Data Description – Dave
	Cache Services – Dave
	Metadata Catalogues – Dave
 	Appendix 1 listing specs – already done?
	Appendix 2 summary of general interfaces – to be completed in final draft?
	Appendix 3 mappings to specs – to be completed in final draft?
- What about asynchronous operations and aborting requests? (Dave) (Suspend/Resume/Abort Request)


3) Progress Report.

Stephen and Dave have further revised EMS/Data scenarios; Dave sent them to Andreas et al.
Mario has updated the architecture document.

4) Discussion of Mario's updates to Architecture Document

Small changes to section 1 and 2.

Mario commented that section 2 doesn't read as a coherent thread and therefore perhaps needs more work.

In the data access section, the details of WS-DAI and ByteIO have been moved to appendices.

Mario also corrected some references.

Mario to flesh out discussion of structured and unstructured data access in the new section 7 and to rewrite the appendix to show the mapping.


5) DONM.

Wednesday, 20th December.