Minutes of the OGSA WG Data Design Team telcon, April 6th

* Roll Call
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Fred Maciel, Hitachi
Dave Berry, NeSC (note taker)

* Charter: 
This was approved by this group last week and by the OGSA WG on Monday.  We agreed to send it to GFSG.

* F2F Meeting: 
The OGSA F2F is scheduled for May 22nd to 25th, with May 25th scheduled for data-specific groups.  We agreed that we would like to discuss the architecture document, with a session for ByteIO if the ByteIO are interested.  Dave will consult with ByteIO and also send message to the mailing list.


* Straw man: 
Dave has revised the structure and is looking for comments.  Contributors are now needed to write/update individual sections.  Dave to remind contributors.  Aim to have revision of document ready 1 week before F2F meeting.

* DONM: next week


