OGSA Teleconference - 27 July 2005
==================================

* Participants

  Pete Ziu (Northorp Grumman)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes approval

  July 25 minutes approved with minor modifications: Add Tom Maguire
  to Participants list.

* Roadmap document: Public comment discussion

  There are 3 new comments:
  - Comments from Olegario
  - And a couple of issues about the scope of the document.
    - These might be difficult to fix in this version. They should
      probably be left for the next version.

  - Hiro is planning to add a comment about including the OGSA-AuthZ
    document.

  - Steven N has put a comment on a different tracker (on the OGSA-WG
    site). He will move it to public comment forum.
    - It is new text for OMII activities.

* F2F update

  - Jem probably cannot make it this F2F. He will try to call in
    during specific sessions.

  - Hiro is planning to use freeconference.com again. It is free but
    it does not have US toll-free dial number.

* WSRF Basic Profile 1.0 review

  Review of draft 33.

  - Issue 1258: section 4.4 language on subscribe requirements has
    been softened
        - l.350 & l.353: 'mandates' should be changed to 'recommends'
          for consistency.
        - Verify and close after the call.
  - Issue 1366: Not sure what it relates to. Agreed to close it with a
    comment that "In the absence of testing consumer is equivalent to
    message."
  - Issue 1368: section 8.2: verified and closed
  - Issue 1369: section 8.2.1: verified anc closed (there are enough
    conformance claims now defined.)
  - Issue 1559: verified and closed. Tom could not arrange call with
    all interested parties (Marty, Mark, etc.). But the language has
    been changed. People can still comment during the public comment
    period of this document.
  - Issue 1560: verified and closed.
  - Issue 1561: Agreed to add some explanatory text on why a separate
    canonicalization/serialization requirement is needed in this case
    and why SchemaCentric is chosen.
    - Verify in next draft.
  - Issue 1572: Normative terminology should not be used in the
    decriptive text. Lowercased all instances of MUST, SHOULD, etc. in
    descriptive text.
    - Confirmed and closed.
  - Issue 1573: minor change to the text.
    - Andreas to verify and close in next draft.
  - Issue 1574: verified and closed
  - Issue 1575: verified and closed
  - Issue 1576: verified and closed
  - Issue 1577: Refers to text that should not have been deleted in a
    earlier version. The text was brought back during the last call
    (7/25). 
    - Verified and closed.
  - Issue 1578: verified and closed
  - Issue 1579: Changed text to use the formal name of the base faults
    type.
  - Issue 1581: Resolved to change per comment.
    - Hiro to do for next draft.

  - l.631: Removed the relative reference part in the URL.
  - Reviewed and updated Acknowledgements section.

  Agreed to submit to the GGF Editor by the end of the week (this
  month). Complete the last batch of minor edits, finalize the text
  over the next 1-2 days and issue a final call by email.

* Next Call

  - Roadmap Public Comment review
  - Architecture and Glossary 1.5 discussion
