OGSA Teleconference - 30 June 2005
==================================

* Participants

  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jeffrin Von Reich (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* F2F meeting update

  - WSDM meeting is planned for August 16, 17
  - OGSA will arrange its F2F the same week and at a nearby location
    so that it does not overlap as much as possible (perhaps Thursday
    and Friday)
  - Not decided yet, but 2 or 3 days
  - The DMTF UC will also do its F2F in the Bay area that week. Their
    ballot is published on the DMTF site.

  Action: Hiro will co-ordinate with Tom Maguire for a DMTF UC
          cross-WG session.

  - Jem T may not be able to attend Thursday (8/19) for family reasons.
  - Ravi S cannot attend Thursday (8/19) due to other commitments
  - Ian Foster cannot attend on Tuesday (8/17)

  - Days late in the week look more feasible.

* OGSA use case document public comment review

  - There is one comment submitted (and maybe there will be one more
    from Hiro)
  - The plan is to wait until the end of the public comment period.
    And then review comments and revise as needed. Replies must also
    be posted to the forum.

  - How to get more comments: Has this document received sufficient
    publicity? Many people have sent emails within GGF already but
    more publicity cannot hurt.

* OGSA version 2

  - Tentatively a next version is likely within one year
  - More advanced work should be spun out into other WGs at
    appropriate times
  - The Glossary should also be updated at that time.

* OGSA version 1 review

  Reviewed the data section and agreed on a set of revisions.

* Glossary version 1 review

  - Data resource: it is one or more data source
  - Job definition needs followup with Andrew G
  - Log service should be changed to  logging service
  - Metadata: it is not just other data (Hiro to supply definition)
  - Change task to job : Defer discussion until Andrew G is
    present. Also need to state relationship with Job if this term is
    retained.
  - Schedule delta: it is part of current schedule

  Action: Andreas to create tracker for the Glossary.

* Other business

  - The general trackers are out of date (no update since December
    F2F). They should be reviewed after version 1 is submitted.
  - Hiro to add to the agenda of a future call

* Teleconference schedule review

  - No Monday call next week
  - CIM and JSIM tutorial on July 12, 19 (Mondays)
  - WSDM MUWS and MOWS tutorial in August
