OGSA Teleconference - 14 June 2007 - Workflow
=============================================

* Participants
  
  Donal Fellows (UMAN)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVA)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Steve McGough (IC)
  Mark Morgan (UVA)
  Steven Newhouse (Microsoft)
  Bahareh Rahmanzadeh
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Adrian Toth (Univ of Miskolc)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Approved Minutes with no changes

   - Apr. 26: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14416
   - OGF20 workflow: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc1445
   - OGF20 F2F: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14536

* Summary of New Actions

  AI-0614a: Steven Newhouse will check whether Windows Workflow can
           also be used with CCS / BES style services
  
  AI-0614b: Andreas will put the initial presentation points on the
             wiki

  AI-0614c: Andreas will put the initial questionnaire points on the
             wiki

  AI-0614d: Steve McGough will compile the list and put it on the wiki

  AI-0614e: Steve McGough will look for the workflow material from
             the Berlin GGF

  - Assign AI-0508a to Donal Fellows

* Action Items Review

**  AI-0508a: 
    - The action to contact Taverna has no owner
    - One immediate question, following from the OGF20 discussion, is
      whether contacting projects for end-user use cases is the right
      approach
      - They might have actual use cases; it is worth asking
    - Taverna is based in Manchester and Donal is the person
      closest 
    - Donal agreed to contact them, but cannot do so until the week
      after next
      - This is not a problem since the next workflow call is in three
        weeks time
      - Eventually ask them to do a introductory presentation (see
        discussion further down)
    - Assigned action to Donal
    - Andreas will send reminder to Donal after 1 week

* Recap of discussion from the last F2F and followup

  - Consensus at the last F2F was for a community practice document,
    before making any decisions on technical work.
  - Who will contribute? 
    - No volunteers at this time. 
    - Some people indicated that they would be interested in the
      output; but not to work on producing it
  - Which language? Unclear
  - Does it include tools in addition to languages? 
    - Yes, if we are dealing with end user requirements.
  - Donal mentioned that his current project has a relevant survey
    report (a project deliverable) but unfortunately it cannot be
    released yet
  - It was suggested that the goal should be to do workflow with the
    services currently available/defined (BES, etc)

  - What tools are people using?

    - Windows Workflow  was mentioned. Also Platform, Kepler, ...

  AI-0614a: Steven Newhouse will check whether Windows Workflow can
           also be used with CCS / BES style services

  - Andrew volunteered to contact the Kepler project and arrange for a
    30 minutes presentation on a future call; with a focus on the use
    cases they are addressing.
    - Agreed to postpone this until the group can work out in more
      detail what the presentations should focus on
    - Andrew will send an email with the url of their website [done]

** Agreed on the following approach

    - Prepare a questionnaire and ask projects to fill it in
    - Select which projects to invite to give presentations based on
      the questionnaire replies
    - Provide an outline or key points that the presentations should
      address
    - Send invitations to projects once we decide what the
      presentations should focus on

** Suggested presentation points (initial draft)

    - How web services fit in
    - How security  is handled
    - What use cases are addressed
    - What standard tooling and standards are being using

    AI-0614b: Andreas will put the initial presentation points on the
             wiki

** Suggested questionnaire points (initial draft)

   - User base: grid or not
   - Technologies used: web services, or ..
   - Standard tools and standards are they basing their work on
   - If using a standard why did you choose it?
   - if chose to build your own; why?
   - User's key requirements; key decision making
   - number of deployments/ and how many users they have
   - What is their future release plan, i.e., where are they planning
     to be after one year (there were some reservations with adding
     this in)

    AI-0614c: Andreas will put the initial questionnaire points on the
             wiki

** Initial candidate list for presentations

    - Taverna
    - Kepler
    - Triana
    - OMII-bpel
    - Microsoft
    - Platform
    - Condor
    - Unicore
    - ...

 AI-0614d: Steve McGough will compile the list and put it on the wiki

  In addition to sending emails to specific projects it was agreed to
  send emails to the OGSA-WG list and to other related lists. One
  other list mentioned was the Workflow Management RG. Even though
  their current focus might be different. There are a number of
  communities represented there.

** Other input

   There was an ad-hoc BOF on workflow at the Berlin GGF. It might be
   worth reviewing the material from there, if available.

   AI-0614e: Steve McGough will look for the workflow material from
             the Berlin GGF


* Next workflow call -- July 5th
