OGSA Teleconference - 10 August 2005
====================================

* Participants

  Pete Ziu (Northrop Grumman)
  Von Welch (NCSA)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Mary Thompson (LBL)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* Minutes Aug. 8 approval postponed

* WSRF Basic Profile 1.0 status update

  - The document is still in GGF Editor review. 
  - Andrew as the Architecture (AD) will ask Greg Newby to bring it to
    GFSG review.

* OGSA-AuthZ-WG discussion

  Introduction of OGSA-AuthZ-WG deliverables and preliminary
  discussion about next week's F2F.

** Authorization service document

   This document is still being revised. It is based on the SAML 1.1
   model. A client makes an authorization request and gets back a
   response 
   - Reply is one of "yes/no/indeterminate or not applicable"
     - If 'no', does it also return why not? No.
     - A 'yes' may still change to 'no' later due to other state
       changes
       - It actually returns an assertion containing information on
         what the client can do---the assertion is signed and has a
         validity period.
       - There is another variant where a client accesses a service
         and the service checks whether the operation is allowed at
         that time.
     - Is parameter based authorization supported? 
       - Not in version 1 of the document but thinking about it for
         version 2.
     - Is it method level or message level?
       - It is 'method' level---on invocation.

   The document is basically a 
   - SAML authorization assertion profile; and
   - extensions to address certain use cases
   
   - Does it depend on the OGSA WSRF BP or any other infrastructure?
     - Initially it was based on OGSI and then moved to WSRF
     - The document does talk about what state is exposed but does not
       use these features heavily; it is not a major dependency.
     - Is it a dependency or composition? In other words, is a service
       defined or just a set of abstract portTypes that can be
       composed with other portTypes?
       - At the moment OGSA-AuthZ is looking at this more as a
         standalone service.
       - But there is nothing stopping anyone from mixing the defined
         portTypes in their service. But conceptually that is not the
         model the OGSA-AuthZ group has been working with.
   - Suppose a client wants to access an endpoint. If the
     authorization point is separate from the service, how can the
     client find out where it needs to go to receive authorization?
     - It is out of scope.
     - A common pattern is to try and access the service endpoint and
       then the service goes and asks (its authorization point) if it
       is ok.
     - Otherwise the client has to be configured with a priori
       information. (And this also looks like a common case.)

** Attributes document

   It has been submitted to GGF and is now in public comment.

   - The Service document (above) came first. It ended up covering a
     large area so the Attributes portion was pulled out and made into
     this separate document.

   The Attributes document defines the
   - format of attributes and semantics; and
   - two profiles: SAML and x.509 

   - Hiro during an earlier review had suggested that this document
     should be re-formated as a profile document
     - It is true that some sections are profiles; while others are
       informational
     - Now thinking how to re-structure the document
   - Tom volunteered to help/give feedback with structuring this
     document as a Profile.

   These 2 documents are a pair and should really move through the
   process together but the Attributes document is ahead. In some ways
   the Attributes document is an addition/appendix of the Service
   document.

** Security session at F2F   

   The plan is to continue further discussion of these two documents.

   Also the OGSA-Data WG has questions on the authorization
   service. There has been some email exchange but they also want to
   talk at the F2F.

   Finally how to structure the collaboration around OGSA security and
   how to start working together.

   Von is the current chair but he is in the process of handing over
   the group. Also the group is in process of re-chartering. There are
   a number of ideas for future work including updating the
   specifications to use SAML 2.0, integrating XACML work, etc.

   Hiro mentioned the OGSA naming rule that GFSG has been
   defining. A new charter for OGSA-AuthZ should include a statement
   that the group will collaborate with OGSA-WG as needed. 
   - Hiro will send information to Von about this requirement.

* Roadmap 1.0 review

  Review of revision to address public comments.

  - Sec 1.0: "...human resources..." statement revised. And re-revised
    to remove "...limited number of people..."
  - Sec 2.0: "...specifications and profiles..." revision. 
  - "...recommended profile..." addition to define what this term
    means. Agreed not to duplicate detailed definitions from other
    documents but provide a short definition and reference.
  - GFD-I reference
  - Added Takuya's text describing the OGSA-AuthZ documents. (Needs
    review)
  - Table update
  - Waiting for an update for the Information document from Abdeslem

  - Discussed deadline to return the document to Greg
    - Since the F2F is next week it will probably take until the
      beginning of September.

* F2F update

  - OGSA-EGA meeting
    - The EGA members have asked for this meeting to be a closed
      one. It was in the F2F agenda earlier so the implication was
      that it was a regular open session. For this reason Hiro has
      dropped it from the last agenda he posted.
      - A number of concerns were raised with having this as a closed
        session.
    - Only a limited number of people can attend (expected to be about
      4). At the moment it is probably the two Chairs, Secretary and
      AD.
      - Fred also expressed an interest in taking part in this
        meeting.
      - It was agreed to discuss who will take part on Monday.

  - Hiro is still waiting for all the agendas to come in. He has added
    some new items for Thursday afternoon and Friday morning;
    including a discussion on re-chartering.

  - Friday is now scheduled 8-11am and 11am is a hard stop.

* Architecture & Glossary 1.5 discussion

  Andreas confirmed that Andrew will be in charge of the EMS section
  revision. The EMS revision will cover the new work on BES, RSS,
  etc. Also the terminology problems raised during the last public
  comment should be fixed.
