OGSA Teleconference - 22 February 2006
======================================

* Participants

  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  
  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  Action: Hiro to announce the new OGSA-HPC design team to the list.

  Action: Hiro to confirm intentions of the other design teams for F2F
          time and re-confirm dates.

* Minutes of February 8 - approved with no changes

* Minutes of GGF16 OGSA session 1 (Round table) - approved with no
  changes
* Minutes of GGF16 OGSA session 2 (Information model) - approved with
  no changes
* Minutes of post-GGF16 F2F - approved with no changes

  Discussed who should announce the new design team. Agreed that it
  should be Hiro since he is the co-chair.

* F2F Agenda discussion

  - Confirmed that Information Model design teams wants to meet at the
    April F2F.
  - The Security design team has no plans to meet.
  
  The week of April 3 also needs re-confirmation since some people
  have said they may not be able to make it.

  Action: Hiro to confirm intentions of the other design teams for F2F
          time and re-confirm dates.
  
* Next calls planning

  - Information Model design team is working on 3 documents (Fred: 1,
    Ellen: 2): allocate 2 Wednesday calls 
    - Fred's modelling guidelines tentatively for March 8
    - Ellen's documents tentatively for March 22

  - Security has no documents in progress. A joint call with
    OGSA-AuthZ is not being planned at the moment. 
    - No time required until the F2F

  - Work on the next version of the OGSA Roadmap should start sometime
    in the near future. But no teleconf time is required until the
    April F2F.

  - Monday teleconference dial-in information will change. It will be
    announced on the next proposed agenda. 

  - Next Monday (Feb 27): No clear agenda items at the moment.
