Minutes of the OGSA-D telcon, 16th August 2007


* Roll call

Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)


* OGSA WG F2F

Allen gave a report to the OGSA WG F2F.  

Hiro Kishimoto made the comment that we should be careful in writing the section that maps our architecture to existing standards.

Mark Morgan reviewed some of the document and gave some feedback with regard to updates in the WS-Naming spec.

There has been some discussion about an update of the OGSA 1.5 document.  The OGF editors are not happy to release this as an errata update.  The OGSA WG have decided to wait until further changes are made to the OGSA 1.5 document before releasing a new version.  They will release the new version of the OGSA Glossary in the meantime.


* Architecture Document

We reviewed most of the remaining comments in the document.  Allen will make some further corrections today and pass the pen to Mario.  Mario will check the remaining comments.


DONM: Monday August 20th.



