OGSA teleconference minutes - January 5, 2005
=============================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Steve Newhouse (OMII)
  Takuya Mori (NEC, ANL)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Apologies: Dave Snelling
  
  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Basic profile update

  Tom, Dave & Ian are preparing a basic profile draft. They should be
  ready to discuss it by the next call.

* Minutes of Dec 22, Dec 01, Nov 24, Nov 10, and Nov 03 approved with
  no changes.

* Next F2F meeting
  
  A lot of difficulty in chosing dates due to holidays and people's
  committments.

  Dates finally chosen February 14-15. (With apologies to those who
  cannot make it.)

  Location is Chicago, probably at an airport hotel. Andrew has
  tentatively booked a conference room (200USD/day) at the Westin near
  the airport. (No need to rent a car.) 

  Action: Andrew to check if we can get the conference room for free
          if a minimum number of people choose to stay
          there. (Expected number of participants between 10 and 20)

  Hiro has sent out a request for participation:
  - Can attend: Dave Snelling, Ian Foster, Steve Tuecke, Andrew
        Grimshaw, Jem Treadwell, Hiro Kishimoto, Andreas Savva, Steve
        Newhouse (probably), Jay Unger (probably)

  - Cannot attend: Chris Smith, Dave Berry, Latha Srinivasan, Mike
           Behrnes

* GGF13 session plan

  - Proposal by Hiro on gridforge
    https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF13_session_plan/en/1
  
  - Deadline is in February but OGSA has many sessions and
    dependencies so the plan should be fixed soon.

  - Fred asked for one more design team session on 'Resource
    Management.' An 'architecture session' to discuss resource model
    issues, e.g., GLUE, WS-CIM, JSDL, etc.

    Note: Once the CMM document is out (expected delivery concurrent
          with the OGSA version 1.0 and Glossary) the CMM-WG should be
          closed. Activities are planned to continue within the
          OGSA-WG.

  - EMS
    - Not sure that there will be a draft profile ready by that time.
    - The GGF session is meant for discussion; no commitment to have a
      draft ready.
    - There is a tentative plan between Andrew and Steve N to discuss
      EM profile issues around 1,2 February in London. 
      - Hiro asked for the details to be made public so that other
        interested parties, including himself, might consider joining.
    - The January 17 teleconference is planned for EMS profile
      discussion.

  - Naming
    - Two parts: High level (Human - logical) layers (covered by RNS)
      and lower 2 levels (WS-Naming requirements)

    - Andrew would like to get a copy of RR paper discussed within
      WSRF TC. Not clear whether it was made public.

    - Suggestion to add Tom Maguire as session owner. Confirm with Tom
      next week.

  - Data 
    - Similar with EMS, not sure that there will be a profile draft by
      that time, but should be able to discuss it.
    - Concentrating on high-level architecture at the moment.

* OGSA version 1.0 & Glossary status

  - A couple of issues remaining: EMS final draft and naming. Provided
    these are fixed this week (Andrew sent draft and reply to both;
    Andreas and Jem to check) then we should be ready for final review
    next week.

  - Deadline for comments within group by next call Wednesday
    - Comments to list and final review on call.
    - Only looking for sanity checking at this point.

  - Should co-ordinate with Fred and the submission of the CMM
    document (GFD number assignments and cross-refs).
