OGSA Teleconference - 28 September 2006
=======================================

* Participants

  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Alan Sill (TTU)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Michel Drescher (Fujitsu)

  Minutes: Chris Jordan, Hiro Kishimoto, Andreas Savva (ed)

* Summary of new actions

  AI-0928a: Takuya will issue a final call on BSP-Core on the list.

  AI-0928b: Takuya will get another opinion on TLS 1.1 and
            ciphersuites (probably ask Frank Siebenlist)

  AI-0928c: Andreas will propose new text for the reference to the
            NIST document to make it clearer that it is an informative
            statement

* Skipped minutes approval and action review due to initial lack of
  quorum

* Roadmap 1.1 discussion 

  Chris Jordan began by discussing the state of the document as it is
  on gridforge at the moment, focusing primarily on the fact that
  there are now several documents which are complete, published as
  GFDs, and do not necessarily have a schedule for subsequent
  versions. The primary OGSA documents fit into this category. This
  reinforces the notion that we need to keep published documents in
  the main body of the Roadmap, rather than moving them to an
  appendix.

  Hiro noted that there was no descriptive text for the OGSA
  Architecture and Glossary documents in their entries in Section 3,
  and took the action to provide some text. (This action has been
  completed.)

  Chris J also noted that while Mike Behrens has written some material
  addressing the underlying web services specifications, he has not
  included it, partially because with the introduction of the
  WS-ResourceTransfer family of specifications, it is not clear
  whether these need to be addressed and to what extent.  (It was not
  discussed where, precisely, this material should go, but it will be
  discussed in the next Roadmap call. Leaning towards an appendix.)

  Hiro agreed that this was an important point, and it was agreed that
  there would be some mention of the existence of these
  specifications, and that it would merely be stated that the OGSA and
  related groups would address them with profiles or other work as
  necessary, and as the evolution of WS-RT implementations continues.

  Chris J noted that he's still having trouble getting updated status
  and descriptive text from all the document authors, and that as a
  result, some of the dates in the document currently on gridforge
  represent educated guesses rather than hard information. He will
  continue trying to get more information from the relevant working
  groups.

  Jem pointed out that the document needs to be updated to conform to
  the new OGF Document template recently posted on gridforge. There
  was a brief discussion of the complexity of this task, which led to
  the agreement that Chris J will perform the transition to the new
  template as part of the next round of changes.

  Hiro suggested that the "OGSA document structure" figure used in
  several presentations is useful in section 2.0. Hiro will send the
  latest figure to Chris J for consideration. [Completed.]

* Basic Security Profile - Core review

  Takuya explained Andreas and he revised the text for keyinfo on page
  5. The new text looks good and there are no farther comments on this
  profile draft. It was agreed to proceed to a final call on the list.
  Takuya will accept all modifications in the document and upload to
  GridForge.

  AI-0928a: Takuya will issue a final call on BSP-Core on the list.

* Security Profile - Secure Channel review

  - l.222-3: Takuya added reference to a table in a NIST document. The
    proposal is that this is a good table to refer to for ciphersuires
    and key lengths.
    - Alan said that the table is not far from current practice and is
      a good reference. But it only recommends (SHOULD) 1024-bit keys
      while in (their) current guidelines 2048-bit keys are required
      (MUST).
    - Michel pointed out this reference is misplaced here since the
      NIST table discusses algorithms while the compliance statements
      are about authentication. It may be better to refer to a
      different table, if one exists.
    - Agreed to delete lines 222-3.
    - Also discussed whether there should be a statement that TLS
      offers this (authentication) feature already. Takuya will
      consider adding some text here.

  - l.230-236: New text looks fine
  - l.246: New text looks fine.
    - The table does include SHA1 for which potential compromises have
      been shown. Other guidelines recommend SHA256, etc.

  - Discussed again the applicability of the reference to the NIST
    document. Any security reference dealing with such information is
    bound to become obsolete. This document was published in 2005.
    - Considered a specific expiration statement for the Profile
      document. OGF does not have process for expiring documents and
      it is not clear what is current anyway.
    - Considered modifying the statement to say "at time of
      publication"; and to also make a forward statement that the
      reference may be superseded by a newer version if one becomes
      available.
    - Considered making separate statements to modify recommended key
      lengths, etc. (Decided in a previous call not to do this.)
    - Alan mentioned that IETF has done some work on a newer set of
      ciphersuites (for TLS 1.1). But it is not clear how well
      adopted that is.
    - Clarified that the reference to the NIST table is
      informative. 
    - Agreed to change the text to make it clearer that this reference
      is not a normative statement. And possibly to add references to
      other more recent work as well as a forward statement.
    - It was mentioned that TLS 1.1 obsoletes TLS 1.0. The Profile
      however is intended to also take into account current adoption
      levels. It is not clear how widely implemented TLS 1.1 is.

  AI-0928b: Takuya will get another opinion on TLS 1.1 and
            ciphersuites (probably ask Frank Siebenlist)

  - l.161 The conformance URI should be changed from 'bsp' to 'sp' to
    be in line with the new title.

  AI-0928c: Andreas will propose new text for the reference to the
            NIST document to make it clearer that it is an informative
            statement

  Takuya will prepare a new version. Since there are a number of
  unresolved issues the Secure Channel will not go to final call until
  the issues raised during this review are closed.

  There is a security discussion scheduled for next Thursday (Oct
  5). Confirm status at that time.
