Telecon Minutes -- 2 June 2005

Attendees
---------
	Fred Maciel
	Andrew Grimshaw
	Mark Morgan (Minutes)
	Darren Pulsipher
	Karl Czajkowski
	Chris Smith
	Tom Maguire

Agenda Bashing
--------------
	* Overview of Conclussions from London Meeting
	* Minutes approval from London Meeting
	* Management
	* Wrap up

	* Add talk about number of session at GGF.
		- Andrew has put in one session so far.  He has sent mail to
		  Joel.

	* Grid Forge has minutes from London
	* Briefly review what we agreed to in London
	* Formerly approve minutes
	* Move on to taking a look at DMTF CIM Models

London Overview
---------------
	* Might make sense to use this existing standard rather then invent
	  another one
	* We decided in terms of factory port types that the create activity
	  will take in a string.
	* We need to have a mechanism to suppress duplicate submissions
	* Output will be a WS-Name (Essentially EPR)
	* GetActivityStatus 
		- Will take in vector of WS-Names.
		- It will return a document with some schema
			-- this schema should refer back to things in terms of
			   the original JSDL document that came in.
			-- Darren, Andreas, and Steve McGough agreed to hook in
			   a draft of what this would look like.
	* The other thing is that we decided that data staging would definitely
	  be part of what we are doing.
		- There will be a stage in, an action and a stage out.
			-- No job has to contain all of these though.
	* Any comments?  No.
	* Terminate 
		- Not a whole lot of discussion on this really 
		- Some in the notes, but basic thing is that this is a hard
		  terminate.
		- We had a number of other issues.
	* To summarize, we decided that we were going to keep the scope small
		- Right now we aren't defining any of the port types on the
		  activities themselves -- only on the factory/container.
		- But, just as JSDL has a POSIX profile for a particular class
		  of activity, at a later date we might put together a port
		  type that might be specific to a specific type of activity.
			-- A fairly important decision.
		- Yeah, but it might be reasonable to re-considering this and
		  do something for the POSIX like activity.
			-- Main issue was one of timing and spreading out the
		  	   activity.
			-- Is this something that you (Chris) would be willing
			   to take a first stab at?
				--- Yes, absolutely.
				--- He thinks that it wouldn't take too long to
				    get this.
			-- Seems like without the operations on the activity,
			   the usefulness of this group is diminished.
			-- Any comments or dissention
				--- no -- seems fine.
		- So, the conceptual BES model won't say anything about what
		  those port types have to be, but we will "profile" the port
		  types for some of them.
			-- Chris, by POSIX do you mean a legacy batch?
				--- Yes
		- The other thing was the decision for a group of people to go
		  out and look at the meta model possibilities.

* Minutes discussion?
	- Approved!

* We have a really simple port type defined with three or four methods on it.
* Chris is going to go off and do a port type for the POSIX application.
* What sort of resource properties or meta data do you want to be associating
  with these things.
	- It makes sense that it be JSDL
	- There was also a desire to make it more generic.
	- This got Andrew to thinking about another standard that is out there
	  for describing resources.
	- This is also something that EGA is really interested in looking at.
	- In particular, there is one called CIM (Component Information Model).
	- Bring this up because it's been very well thought out, it has a
	  number of different types of resources that it's trying to model
	  (not just host or CPU, but also filesystem, users, etc.).
	- The reason why attracted to it
		-- It is a standard (not sure how much uptake).
		-- They have gone through the process of figuring out what
		   information you want to keep about these things.
		-- They have a number of attributes or resource properties.
		-- This is also an extensible model.
	- Should we consider using the CIM model which doesn't just include
	  resource properties, but also includes some methods (like on OS,
	  reboot and shutdown).
	- Do we think that it is appropriate to use this model in total, or
	  cherry pick pieces (which might have less value), or something else.
	- Incorporating CIM wholesale seems like a good idea.
		-- There are some activities to make a WSRF-CIM.
		-- A lot of benefit to using CIM.
		-- The hardest part is just figuring out which classes to use.
		-- The exercise of trying to incorporate it would be really
		   worth while.
		-- A problem would be the complexity of it.
		-- Also, since CIM is a generic model, there are lots of things
		   that will interest us and a lot which won't.
	- Can you cherry pick which fields you want or not?
		-- Seems like you have to support each class and the attributes
		   in it, but you can support an attribute as having an
		   undefined or meaningless value.
		-- You can have profiles on the models 
			--- say which relationships they want, which properties
			    they want, and which classes they want for a
			    particular domain or discipline of use.
	- CIM was originally for IT management but is only now progressing to
	  Grid.
	- The JSDL resource properties or attributes aren't as rich as CIM.
	- Could easily see that a BES container is something that has a
	  FileSystem, an OS, etc.
	- What we are hearing is that we should look strongly at a CIM-like
	  model.
	- It's probably premature to make a decision about that, particularly
	  since we have three people to go off and look at the meta model
	  thing.
	- Can we say that we should look strongly at CIM as a way of
	  representing our resource properties?
	- From a BES point of view, what we'd have to do is have a section
	  beyond the port types that says, with respect to resource properties
	  or whatever, we are using the CIM models specified in etc...
	- The BES container then we should say may or should implement the CIM
	  classes of OS, Filesystem, etc.
	- We'd have to make some statement about how we access the data.
	- There are a couple of things that you have to consider in a resource
	  model
		-- Semantics of what the data means, and how you access the
		   data.
		-- If you want to model this as resource properties that's
		   fine.
		-- The main problem isn't the rendering, it's defining the
		   semantics.
		-- The problem is that if we are trying to get something out,
		   it's a classic chicken and egg problem 
			--- how much can we wait for and how much do we need to
			    just go forward.
	- Fears lie in the complexity of CIM.
		-- CIM seems incredibly complex but that might be just because
		   they have so many classes.
		-- If we say we are only talking about a small subset, does it
		   become better?
	- Resource Modeling working group will adopt bits and pieces of CIM as
	  a profile.
	- When can we expect to have this profile?
		-- They don't have an answer for that.
	- Since you are looking at the CIM model, what are the classes?
		-- What about jobs?
		-- For a job, is an activity a job.
	- We need to read through the CIM stuff.
		-- Just in the system stuff there's a lot of obvious overlap.
	- For some of the things that we might want to specify about BES, user
	  info is important.
	- We weren't sure in JSDL how some of the things were being named.
	- Before we could really decide what is right, we have to read and
	  understand this model.
	- Wasn't there also at some point a JCIM document that described a job.

	- It seems that we are in a state where what we need to do is gather
	  some more information.
		-- Let Jay, Mark and Chris do some voodoo keeping in mind CIM,
		   and then maybe that's one of the major topics we need to
		   discuss in Chicago.
		-- We could give each other the homework of reading this stuff
		   so we can have a more informed discussion next week.
		-- Also, next week want to have written up for everyone a draft
		   spec as it's coming together so far with sections that still
		   need to be filled in.
		-- So we can see what things are beginning to look like.
	- We said we were going to try to have a specification by the end of
	  June.
		-- Doesn't look like that is going to happen completely, but
		   we'll have some pieces.
	- Resource Management Design Team sessions at GGF 
		-- Perhaps BES should join those.
		-- We need to make sure that the BES sessions don't overlap
		   with the two RM sessions.
	- Is only having one session enough?
		-- No, not really, but there was already 10 OGSA sessions.
		-- Think we need to have at least two sessions.
		-- Darren to put in for a second session.

	- For next week, Andrew will have prepared a draft specification with
	  missing pieces with real text the way it should be for the pieces
	  that we have decided, so that we can go over it.
		-- Let's plan on that being most of the session next week.

	- Suppose that the resource model and design team and BES decide on a
	  CIM like resource model, is it possible in that context that the JSDL
	  guys could go back in and change some of those terms.
		-- We think actually that all the terms in JSDL do match the
	   	   CIM model already.
		-- In addition, JSDL has the ability to put in anything that
		   they want.
		-- Goal for JSDL to put in anything that came out as resource
		   modeling.
		-- What we are doing in BES right now can be the forcing
		   function for that.
		-- We can't really do a BES spec. unless this issue gets
		   crystallized.

	- Next week we'll go through the spec that Andrew will gen. up.
	- Anything else for next week on the agenda.
		- Chris to say something about a proposed interface for a job
		  port type.
	- The following week Chris to present what the meta model team comes up
	  with.
	- Then we're into GGF.
	- One should be discussion of resource model.
		-- There's already a resource model team which we don't want to
		   crash.
		-- BES would be more focused 
			--- they'll be talking about what pieces out of CIM and
			    JCIM that they want to include or not include.

	- For the other session we should be going over the document.
		-- Darren, Stephen and Andrew need to work that out.

	- Next week go over straw man spec. doc. and the batch POSIX activity
	  that Chris will do.
	- The following will have a report out from Metamodel sub-team.
	- The one after that is cancelled due to absentees and proximity to GGF
	- Think that progress is being made.
	- Any other comments?
		-- Do we have a mailing list.
			--- Subscribe to ogsa-bes-wg and until GGF 14 Andrew
			    will cross post everything to ogsa mailing list.
