Minutes for the OGSA Data WG telcon, November 16th teleconference. 

In this telcon we reviewed the Storage Management section. 

1) Early discussion 
        Note taker assignment - S.Davey
        Roll call -

Stephen Davey, NeSC  (note taker)
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Dave Berry, NeSC 
Peter Kunst, CERN
Chris Jordan, SDSC
Allen Luniewski, IBM

The minutes from the 9th November have not been circulated yet.

2) Action report

Completed Actions:
- Stephen to update replication scenarios. DONE.
- Allen to advise Stephen on how to address database replication in the scenarios document. DONE.

Ongoing Actions:
- Ann to update replication section.  
- Everyone to comment on draft RNS specification.
- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.
- Mario to update the Access section and make text available for comment.
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections.
- Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document.
- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.
- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation (after internal reviews). 
 
New actions:
All - discuss plans for GGF16 OGSA Data meetings & F2F.
Dave - find out about status of WS-Agreement post GGF15.
Peter & Stephen - first draft of Storage Management scenario to be added.


3) Progess & planning update 

Need to make plans for GGF16 F2F. 


4) Review of Storage Management section and associated scenarios 

- need to add a specific scenario involving Storage.
- scenario should talk about data transfer, but also first staging from near-line to online (low latency) storage. 
- latest version of storage section introduced (from SRM WG) terms: volatile, durable & permanent for when the lifetime of a data resource expires. Note: These terms are not to do with the quality of the data.
- SURL = Storage URL; equate to EPRs.
- should explicitly mention that this section is about Storage Management, and that the actual access to the data/files is handled by the Data Access section.


5) Wrap up 

Next meetings:

Nov 23rd: 	No meeting.  Thanksgiving + Dave travelling.
Nov 30th:	Scenarios document
Dec 7th:	No meeting?  (Allen on holiday)
Dec 14th:	Naming, RNS & GFS architecture
Dec 21st:	Further Data Architecture doc review
Dec 28th:	No meeting.  Christmas hols. 

Stephen Davey
National e-Science Centre
15 South College St., Edinburgh
Tel: +44 131 6509820

