OGSA Teleconference - 3 December 2007   - Glossary
==================================================
* Participants

  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Allen Luniewski (IBM)
  ZKert

  Minutes: Michael Behrens

* Summary of New Actions
  Jem to send e-mail with final call for Glossary.

* Minutes 19 Nov (doc14941) approved with minor change

* Action Item review

  artf6087: Updated with Allen's additional comments.
  artf6094: Opened, awaiting architecture updates.

* Glossary Public Comments Review

Jem reviewed changes made to the current glossary version as provided in draft:
https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc13938

 - Reviewed minor changes to "Data Consistency" and a reference change in "Data Staging"
 - Reviewed changes to OGSA Basic Profile: agreed to removed footnote and updated sentence 
   with some minor corrections.
 - Reviewed  definition for "Resource"
 - Reviewed changes to definition for "Service"
 - Discussed "Entity" definition. This will be discussed in the architecture document as part of OGSA
   meetings and update it once the Architecture document is updated.  Jem will add Allen's suggestion to tracker.
   This is interesting because it touches on WS-Naming and suggests that more normative language might be used in
   architecture and glossary in the next version (suggested by Hiro).
 - Discussed "Message Broker/Service": Appears to be almost synonyms.  Intermediary is
   a more general concept.  Expand Message broker definition - to add a
   decoupling.  Message broker as defined is too general.  Good discussion on this definition.
   Either do nothing, or adding an example (providing filtering and Store and Forward).  
   Worked on Intermediary to help with overall group of terms.  

Jem will make updates as discussed via glance add a new tracker to review Intermediary in the Architecture
document (done).

* Miscellaneous
Discussion on the procedure for getting a document ID for new documents (ie: Data).
Hopefully, the editors would be able to update the references for each document.
Hiro will accept the data document via email (from Allen) and ask that it be processed.

Jem will reply to Allen's comments in the public comment forum.

Hiro requests that a final call prior to submission.  Possibly discuss next week if needed.

End: 720pm

