Minutes of OGSA Basic Profile Meeting April 6th, 2005
=====================================================

Present: Tom Maguire, Frank Siebenlist, Abdeslem Djaoui, Ian Foster,
Takuya Mori, Jem Treadwell, Latha Srinivasan, Sam Meder

Notes: Jem Treadwell

Minutes of March 30th call: Abdeslem mentioned that his name was spelled
incorrectly (to put it mildly!); minutes accepted with that correction.


Initial discussion
==================

Tom quickly reviewed status, and noted that:
- Tom to ask Andreas to close 1298.
- Revision 4 of the Basic Profile document has been posted (2005-040-06).


Discussion of Tracker 1321:
==========================

See notes posted by Takuya:
  http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2005/04/msg00031.html

Takuya introduced the proposal, which defines a key info type
to exchange Key information with an endpoint.  Example shows how the
endpoint key info will be expressed.

Tom: Question about the options.  Takuya: We've defined 2 use cases -
(1) key is used for encryption, (2) key used for authenticated identity,
which should be used for authorization.

Tom: I discussed the proposal with IBM's WebSphere security guys,
and they were talking about using a security policy as opposed to
carrying security data in the metadata for the endpoint.  What are the
interoperability characteristics?  If I place this info in here I must
understand it or I won't be able to message with the endpoint.  This is
intended for interoperability, so what are the MUST requirements?...
Abdeslem: MUST UNDERSTAND is a requirement on the service.  Frank: Must
pull the data out of the EPR, and use it to encrypt... Tom: not merely an
echo - e.g. need for non-repudiation.  Is it OK for us to have metadata
that's required to be understood as part of an interaction?  Frank:
Did the WebSphere developers suggest an alternative?  Tom: No, don't
have one.  Are there alternatives to embedding it in the EPR?  It would
be required for the interaction, right?  Agree that it needs to be done
at a container level. Globus/Univa folks would need to work with this.
Sam: Right now that code doesn't provide any security support, but will
think about when we think about migrating to apache etc. Tom: OK, need to
think about need for MUST UNDERSTAND metadata - also usually alternative
mechanisms for getting this, so are we presuming an optimization of
another exchange mechanism that will be available - e.g. this metadata is
a cached view for optimization - it's not authoritative because it could
be stale.  Frank: If there's a standardized way to do this we should jump
on it...  Tom: I'm fine with that; don't have a problem with this, and I
like the reuse.  Frank: So does IBM have an issue with implementing this?
Tom: I don't think WebSphere will implement unless I argue for it; they
would implement the spec they have authored.  Frank: So if we put a MUST
they won't be OGSA B/P conformant?  Tom: Think that's true.  Frank:
Any other instances?  Tom: Hasn't been any other MUST in the B/P that
would preclude WebSphere being conformant.  Tom: Moving back to using
Globus Toolkit container, rather than putting it into WebSphere;
programming model differences between GT and WebSphere are significant.

Tom - is the metadata the authoritative data or not?
General view that it isn't - it's a cached copy - so placing normative
requirements on understanding it (is) interesting ground, and I'm
not sure where we're heading.  Frank: agree that there are many ways
that data could be obtained, but we have to agree on at least one to
communicate securely...

Tom: Happy to put it into the profile and have the discussion about
whether it should be a SHOULD or a MUST, etc. No argument about it
technically.  Frank: fine; just want to make sure we have some agreement.

Takuya continued review of the example... Tom: How do we integrate it
with profile... just schema, so have to define it somewhere normatively,
and will need to put MUST/SHOULD requirements somewhere - do we make
this an appendix showing how this stuff works?  ACTION: Tom will fold
into Basic Profile as an appendix, and see how it looks and feels,
and add a short section in the B/P main text to reference it.

ACTION (Tom): Next call: Need an agenda item to discuss this, and then
carry the message back to engineers for feedback.
 

Other Trackers:
===============

1322: Use of Proxy certs - Dave Snelling's issue; Dave not on call. Frank:
should also have Dane Skow on the call for this.  ACTION: Tom to send
a note to ask Dane to attend the next meeting for discussion.

1323:  Frank: Haven't finished internal discussions to propose a solution
for this. Working on a proposal for attribute assertions. Status: Pending.
 

Basic Profile Document
======================

1211: Dave Snelling not on call to discuss.

1314: Tom has this as pending; no need to discuss.  Tracker for Section
3.12: need a tracker: policy extensibility element, needs to be a
metadata extensibility element; also going to update WS-Addressing to
latest last-call document in this section.

1355: Issues that Dave Snelling wants to discuss. Trackers that relate
to should get folded into 1355, in response to WS-Addressing last call.
3.13 and 3.14 should be removed; close 1229 and 1230.  Carry on discussion
re metadata in 1255.

4.2.1: Tom will consider proper wording - issue with applying conjoined
requirements to a single conformance target.  Problem with making
things testable, so in general it's a good idea to avoid this type
of requirement.

R0432: Should be a SHOULD; Tom to fix.  Latha proposed some changes;
Tom will fix.

Tom asked that everybody please review the document, and open trackers as
needed to report issues.  Tom could use a hand with a couple of sections;
will send some questions to the mailing list for review.  We need to be
in a position by 4/20 to say that all trackers are reflected in the spec,
and that we're comfortable - don't want any issues left that we're not
in a position to discuss.

