Meeting minutes - aug-14-03
------------------------------------------------
Attendees: 'Andreas Savva', 'Ravi Subramaniam', 'Fred Maciel' , 
Jem Treadwell, 'Shel Finkelstein', Dave Snelling, 
Jeffrin Von Reich


Discussion on Last calls agenda: 
  -  no comment. if you have comments mail andrea. 
	Not approved right away due to the silence.
  - ( Fred) still things are put in grid forge and mailing list 
	only - reference to Jays comments about tools in F2F.   
	an action item on grid forge with Freds ( who raised this 
	issue) name. 
  -  jeffrin and andrea to upload action items and update it and 
	check it. 
  - Everyone please check the action item list in grid forge. 



Discussion on the next GGF session schedule put out: 
  -  (Shel,Ravi, and then others) the session seems to focus on 
	status reporting and not emphasizing the WG discussion needed.
  - we need to have more discussion and not just status since 
	GGF9 is more for the WG people
  - (Fred) but we need to have marketed our plan and status to 
	other working group first.
  - (Dave)  first session is to motivate people to come to the next
	 sessions, and tell them what is there in the next sessions
  - ( Jeffrin and then others) we need to increase the internal 
	discussion  sessions.
  -  one proposal of the broad schedule is 
	* first session - public session - presentations on  
		current  progress , 
		platform status and content, 
		use case status and content, 
		a map of next sessions with working group information. 
	* then 3 sessions that are internal - working sessions for 
		detailed discussion with WG.
	* last session - public session -  
		wrap up, 
		review of key notes and issues we solved in GGF
		more discussion of any other key issues. 
  - ( Dave and then others) change the names from 'internal' and
	 'public' to something else.
  - jeffrin to send out an initial draft of  changed table to Hiro. 
  - action item for the chairs -  fill up the internal sessions. 
  - we need to fix that early enough since GGF will schedule 
	working group sessions separately too. 
  - when we schedule that there will be an issue of which WGs to 
	club together. Suggestions were
	* group accoridng to the  difficulty to agree with together. 
        * CMM and GRAAP and any other infrastructure type of WG 
		( policy perhaps), to see if they agree on their 
		position of OGSA architecture. 
		But then CMMs future is being discussed.   
	* security, authorisation et.al 
  - another proposal that people liked widely  is to take up 
	Hiros 4 service categories and group the corresponding WGs
	to the internal sessions. In this case we can change
	the  last public session to an internal WG session. 



Discussion on Use cases ( time was getting over ) 
  - jeffrin to send out a  list of working group use cases for 
	people to choose from that if they are interested in 
	helping/working on that .
  -  There were comments as to the issue of which use cases  
	overlap and whether to keep them all. So we start with 
	working on all the use cases present now and see later 
	about the need for condensation or giving a table of some 
	sort at the beginning of the document to keep track of 
	similarities as we review the use case document. 






Decisions made
  - to maximise the working group sessions and to also get a 
	grouping of  working groups for those in the next GGF 
	OGSA meetings.
  -  the way to  handle use case duplicity  to be handled at a 
	later date. 




action items. 
1. jeffrin to send out a  list of working group use cases 
	for people to choose from that if they are interested in 
	working on that .
2.  jeffrin to send out an initial draft of  changed table to hiro.
3. Hiro and Ian - fill up the  internal sessions ( group 
	the Working groups for it )  in the next GGF OGSA schedule 
4. Fred to work on some ideas for better communication in 
	our group besides mailing lists and gridforge document 
	listing.
5. jeffrin and andrea to upload any action items pending and see 
	what has been done and update it and check it. 
6. Everyone - please check the action item list in grid forge. 
