Minutes for the OGSA Data WG telcon, October 20th

o) Actions Arising

* New actions

- Dave to consult with Abdeslem over where data discovery belongs in the oGSA 1.5 document.

- Dave to mail the list with issues for section reviews.

- Dave to add "graceful degradation" to the cross-cutting issues to consider in the architecture document.


* Ongoing actions
- Dave to put reports from GGF on GridForge.

- Peter to rewrite storage management section to reflect changes from GSM-WG
- Allen to write text about policy

- Allen to write an overview section on security
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections, once the overview is ready.
- Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document

- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.

- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers &
expert participation (after internal reviews).  


1) Early discussion

* Roll call
Dave Berry, NeSC (note taker)
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Allen Luniewski, IBM

The minutes and agenda were accepted.

2) Action report

- Dave to put slides and reports from GGF on GridForge [Slides done.  Reports to do.]
- Dave to forward OGSA-DAI internal memo to Allen [Done]
- Allen to comment on OGSA 1.5 draft; Dave to revise and send to list [Done]
- Dave to send F2F plans to mailing list [Done]

- Peter to rewrite storage management section to reflect changes from GSM-WG [Ongoing]
- Allen to write text about policy [Ongoing]

- Allen to write an overview section on security [Ongoing]
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections, once the overview is ready.
- Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document [Ongoing]

- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.

- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers &
expert participation (after internal reviews).  


3) Planning update

Issues to discuss for the reviews:
- Matching scenarios against services
- Level of detail
- Security implications
- Consistency with other sections
- Identify where work is needed on metadata or naming conventions

Read text beforehand, come up with issues.

Dave to mail the list with issues for reviews.


4) OGSA 1.5 Discussion
 
Dave to check with Abdeslem (Info services) whether they handle data discovery, i.e. being able to search for content.  Possible difference is that info services are capability driven, whereas data discovery is content driven.  Clarify difference, if any, between metadata catalogue and data discovery service.  Are they dealing with data description languages.

Provisioning - supposed to cover bulk loads, deployment.  Possibly move this to section on uploading.

Security - OGSA architecture must provide mechanisms that allow effective use of fine-grained mechanisms in OGSA context.  Add some text about policy decision points.

Dave to add "graceful degradation" to the cross-cutting issues to consider in the architecture document.

Consider whether to keep separate sections on "architectural considerations" and "properties", and if so how to better distinguish them.  Other parts of the OGSA document have "properties" sections to describe non-functional characteristics.  Possibly these should be characteristics of individual services, with the "architectural considerations" section being more global.  In this case, the existing introduction to the "properties" section will need to be changed.

Also, the properties of "performance", "availability", and "scalability" are aspects of QoS.  Possibly they should become part of that subsection.  Or perhaps he QoS section should explain how these properties can be explicitly described in policy documents.


5) Wrap up 

DONM: Wednesday 26th.
