OGSA Teleconference - 3 November 2004
=====================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (ANL / NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes of Oct. 27 approved with no changes

* December F2F update

  Jay has booked the room and AV equipment, and has made arrangements
  for network connections and snacks.

  A hotel list, and directions will also be provided (Hiro has a
  copy). It might be possible to get the IBM rate as 'customers.'

  Action: Hiro will upload all material currently available to
          gridforge

* EGA presentation review

  Reviewed a draft presentation from GGF to the EGA consortium planned
  for next week. The presentation was prepared by Dave Snelling and
  Mark Linesch. 

  (The presentation reviewed during the call is a slightly modified
  version of the one previously sent out. An earlier version was
  presented at a NextGrid meeting; feedback from that meeting is
  incorporated.)

  The presentation has a two-fold aim:
  - Bring EGA up to speed with GGF work (mainly OGSA) and minimize any
    potential conflicts, and
  - Respond to the industry call to clarify the OGSA definition

  Dave S added more concrete technical details, not in OGSA version
  1.0, since he felt that this kind of detail is needed to make the
  discussion with other parties more productive. And also to highlight
  the areas where overlaps exist.

  One aim of this review is to make sure that this presentation
  contents reflect the group's consensus.

  The first few slides are non-technical introductory material. (Skipped)

  [Slide 12]
  - Caveats: Not yet approved by OGSA-WG.

  [Slide 14]
  - OGSA Use Case link might not be 'ready' in time (but the GFD#
    should be correct.)
  - Documents should be described as 'informative' and not 'informal'
  - It might be a good idea to also put a list of documents that are
    being worked on and will be published (if possible)

  [Slide 15]
  - Bullets under SOA are more like additions to SOA; it will be
    explained when presenting.
  - Think of 'extends' here as a concept; no specific rendering.

  [Slide 16]
  - Top level categories are meant for EGA consumption; to make the
    presentation easier to relate to.
    - (Minor comment that an earlier slide said "Grid is next
      generation of distributed processing"; needs checking)
    - WSRF-LT should be WSRF-RL. 
      - There are a number of other nits. Dave B and Latha will send
        Dave S a list of such corrections.
    - GFD-C.16: A community practice document that discusses
      Certification authorities. Included to highlight the fact that
      not all needed pieces are (normative) specifications. Some are
      well-known practices (hence GFD-C.16).

    - Dave S has used this slide before. It has served as a good
      anchor point for rest of the talk with the audience often coming
      back to re-orient themselves.

   [Slide 17] Use cases

   [Slide 18] "Middleware is about bringing applications to users"
          (A. Geiger T-Systems)

   [Slide 19]
   - The budget should be 26M$ per year over 3 years
   - (Minor; add hyphen: 'Grid-based')
      
   [Slide 20]
   - Lists requirements drawn from the use cases
     - 'Soft-state garbage collection' is actually one step refinement
       from what's in the use cases.
 
   [Slide 22]
   - Considered changing 'TCO' to 'Administrative cost reduction';
     rejected.

   [Slide 23]
   - 'OGSA Base' is described on the next slide (and also profiles)

   [Slide 24]
   - WSDL 1.0 should read 1.1

   - The aim of using term 'profile' is to show that we are moving
     forward; not just standards but also compliance, thinking about
     what's needed to build things.

   [Slide 25] 
   - Describes the difference between the different activities. In
     particular the difference between 'gap' and 'hole'.

   [Slide 26]
   - MTOM? A recommendation for SOAP attachements.
   - Addressing: Group started recently in W3C but it is moving very
     fast

   [Slide 27]
   - WS-Eventing overlap is noted
   - Again WSRF-LT should be WSRF-RL
   - Drawing out the requirement for modelling data as resource

   - CIM-XML: a rendering of CIM. So it doesn't look right when
     presented this way. Fred will send text to Dave S on how to fix
     this.

   - RM: Evolving. Need to revisit based on Fred's text.

   [Slide 28]
   - JSDL position? It is bundled under Execution Management since it
     is not the focus of this presentation. More refinement is needed
     of the position of both JSDL and WS-Agreement.

   [Slide 29]
   - WSDM 1.0 should be delivered by the End of November/Beginning of
     December (2004)

   [Slide 30]
   - Security focus: EGA asked for more information on this topic.
   - (Note no VO in base release)

   [Slide 31]
   - Is "parallel grid" the right term to describe the separate 'grid'
     for authorization (e.g., PKI)?
     - It is infrastructure to support VO formation and orthogonal to
       the rest of the infrastructure.
     - Maybe not the best term but it does carry the intended meaning.


   [Slide 32] 
   - Dave S has checked some of the security material with Frank
     (email)---nothing controversial is intended here.

* OGSA version 1.0 public comment review 

  - Security section review postponed for next week

* Glossary public comment review 

  - Naming: 
    - Uniqueness is under discussion: leave for v2. Same for rest of
      Sven's comments.
    - Identified contradiction. Need Andrew's feedback. Andreas to
      follow up.

  - From the glossary tracker:
    - Resource discovery: Left for v2 
    - Remove job 'factory' from OGSA version 1.0

  - Should the 'Glossary' be changed to 'Glossary & Acronyms'? 
    - No. Defer to v2.

  - Add reference to Glossary in OGSA version 1.0

  - Other terms: 
    - Add: BLAST, WSDM, CIM

  - Need to review references formatting: Jem and Andreas.

  - Choreography: Reviewed Mike's text and decided to leave it as is
    and revisit for version 2

** Pending:
   - Producer/Consumer/Provider: Andreas to check doc usage.
   - Self-management: Andreas to provide text with doc revision.
   - Manageable resources: Jem, Bill, Fred to work on it offline.
