OGSA Teleconfenence - 11 August 2004
====================================

* Participants

  Dave Berry (NeSC)  
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

  Apologies: Fred Maciel

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes approval

** Minutes of August 4 approved with no changes.
** Minutes of August 8 approved with minor corrections

   - Affiliation of Michael Behrens is R2AD not R2DD
   - Jem & Latha will not be able to join the Thursday session of the
     F2F
   - Fred will not be able to join the call today (Wednesday)

* Data design team teleconf summary

  - Discussed Andrew's draft for basic file/caching/directory access
    - Received a number of comments (EGEE, etc)
  - There is general agreement on this draft.
  - Access to files: nearest group seems to be GFS (Grid File System);
    thinking how to approach.
  - Naming is defined for data but is probably more general.
  - A comment from Peter Kunszt that it looks similar to JNDI (Java
    Naming Directory Interface). 
    - Raised the question of whether it is ok to 're-use/adapt'
      existing standards.
    - Obvious issues with IP, ownership etc. This may be a broader
      question for the whole group or GGF in general.
  - Hoping to have something ready to present in the main OGSA call or
    possibly the F2F next week. So making good progress.

  - (Hiro) There's another data group (DES? or EDS) not just GFS
  - Any discussion about WSDM and how data will use it?
    - No discussion yet.

* August F2F update

  - Ravi booked rooms at Intel for 8/18 & 8/20
  - Will send directions end of day tomorrow
  - Possible VPN issue when accessing internet. Cisco VPN does not
    work but others should be.
  - Projector ok
  - ACTION: Check that there is a equipment to set up phone bridge and
    lots of microphones
    - Bridge booked by Hiro (care of Ian/ANL)
  - 8/19 is at FJ facility; no network access

** F2F agenda

  - Intel: directions are to the RNB bldg, main lobby next to the
    Intel Museum.
    - Will have badges prepared for the people on the list.

  - Allow more time for lunc: may have to go out as the cafeteria is
    being renovated.
  - Light refreshments will be available in the meeting room
    - It is at the executive center; very sensitive to bringing food
      in; some other groups might also be catered.
  - May not have space for everyone around the table.

  - OGSA marketing
    - Steve Crumb requested material for GGF12. Not sure if this is
      too late
  
  - "WSDM - OGSA" cross-wg session proposed agenda

  - OGSA v2 scope and discussion
    - DaveB revised doc; comments from Ian as one input
    - Agreed that we don't need to go to great detail (e.g., wsdl,
      operations and arguments) but do need to talk about services in
      order to define the architecture.
    - Boils down to 2 things:
      1. Get organized feedback 
      2. Rules on what design teams and OGSA does; and the crossing
         point from design team to working group

    - Level of detail: need to do a couple of iterations of the
      architecture to make sure that it is consistent. So it is not
      possible to avoid going to the level of detail that can allow
      design teams to have a discussion with existing working
      groups---decide if the work they are doing fits or not.
    - Need care not to spawn groups too soon; e.g., if EMS is spawned
      too soon (before doing even an initial architecture
      consolidation and the interactions with other areas is more or
      less understood) then may have to revisit and change the
      (spawned) WG scope/charter when they are in a more advanced
      state. (and cause more backtracking)
    - Hiro to arrange the discussion to be at a convenient time for
      UK.

* Document Status review

  - No public announcement but the tracker says it is in public
    comment
  - Hiro will ask Stacey
  - There was a problem with (Ravi's) figures not showing properly on
    Macs
  - Ravi will send original figures to Hiro/Andreas by end of week
  - Hiro to forward information (location, etc) on WSDM F2F to Ravi
    (or all)

* GGF update
  - Still waiting for a room for the data design team.

* No call next Monday