OGSA EMS Teleconference - 23 November 2004
=========================================

* Participants

  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Peter Ziu (NGC)
  
  Minutes: Hiro Kishimoto

* Next calls

  Agreed to skip next to next Monday's (12/6) teleconf, since 
  Ravi cannot make it.

* Summary / Actions:

   (1) OGSA needs to move quicker than now.
   (2) Re-factoring and going-deeper is orthogonal. We should 
       do both.
    AGREED: We adopt UML to specify our design.

    Action: Ravi: I will send another note asking their convenient 
          time for future EMS call.
    Action: Hiro: Send ACS proposal to Mark and Andrew.

    AGREED: No another call before F2F but continue discussion.
    AGREED: Andrew will send out his document to small group for 
            discussion and then send out to the whole list around 
            say Dec. 1st.a

* Early Discussion

  - Ratification of two previous meeting minutes: 
    approved without comments. (Oct. 11 and 25)

  - Agenda bashing:
    Mark and Andrew sent out term redefinition draft to small
    group just before the call. Andrew will explain genesis of
    this document.

* Discuss the Dec OGSA F2F. EMS topics to add on the agenda.

    Ravi: Have we already allocate some time to EMS at F2F?
    Hiro: Not yet, but I am going to allocate sufficient time
          to important design teams, EMS and Date.
    Andrew: Agreed. EMS and data should have high priority and
          the others are reporting status e.g. 20-30 minutes.

          At the last GFSG meeting (Nov. 7 & 8), GFSG are very
          concerned that GGF/OGSA was working more then 2 years
          but no implementations was come out of its pipeline.
          There is strong desire that some concrete standard 
          specifications with implementations come out of the 
          pipeline (not necessary full OGSA) within 12 to 18 
          month from now.

          As OGSA v1.1, we should focus down a couple of tractable
          specs to work out in short period of time. Then later
          put them into fully integrated picture.

          Charge to accelerate the process and get back the
          roadmap to stakeholders, otherwise we will lose momentum.

          EMS and data are two most likely candidates for that.

    Hiro: Our v1.0 document is high level and not for implementation.
          We need close links to existing grid projects by choosing
          Some services. I agree that EMS and data are best candidates.

    Ravi: Re-factoring across capabilities are also necessary. I am 
          worry about duplicated efforts.

    Andrew: I agree. Mark and I work for multiple design teams, data 
          and EMS, to avoid re-inventing things. Also we should
          realize that we cannot do everything perfectly right at the
          first step. We should fix them later.

    Ravi: There are many silos and they are doing their own ways 
          it also makes us slow. But we need to work across
          capabilities. Customers are complaining that Grid software
          today cannot talk to each other. OGSA should not deliver
          the same kind of JUNK.

    Andrew: As an architect, I 100% agree with Ravi. All pieces should
          match each other. But again I think we should start from 
          concrete and build up the system.

    Ravi: Re-factoring and going-deeper is orthogonal. We should 
          do both.
          I object if we use ALL time for these low level things.
          We can use some time since there are many low hanging 
          fruits we can take. 

    Summery:
          (1) We need to move quicker than now.
          (2) Re-factoring and going-deeper is orthogonal. We should 
              do both.

  - Design tools and UML

    Peter: Now we don't have formal way to describe high level
          Design. We should use formal method like UML.

    Andrew: Yes, Bill Horn proposed to use UML for our design.

    Ravi: Mark's document has a half-XML half-Java/c++ example, 
          but I think UML is better for our v2.0 document. Let's 
          use only basic aspects of the UML.

    Peter: There are some useful high level design tools.
          E.g. Together Community Edition for Eclipse
http://eclipse-plugins.info/eclipse/plugin_details.jsp?id=503

    AGREED: We adopt UML to specify our design.

 - OGSA stakeholder survey template

    Hiro: Dave Snelling and I am drafting OGSA stakeholder 
          survey template. It will be available soon.
          We do not get enough feedback from potential
          stakeholders.

    Ravi: EGR-RG is doing similar things. EGR-RG is asking
          their use cases and requirements. This is complementary
          to yours. Two Intel guys are working on this.

- EMS design team building

    Hiro: Though Data design team is well attended but EMS is
          not. Is there any way to invite people to this call?

    Ravi: Changing time slot may help? (Data is 10-11am EDT.)
    
    Mark: Half of data team is in UK.

    Andrew: For EMS, people from 3 continents should be attended.

    Action: Ravi: I will send another note asking their convenient 
          time for future EMS call.

    Hiro: Does Ravi has any specific plan to apply WS-Agreement
          to EMS.

    Ravi: Yes. WS-agreement will enter public comment. 
          We should check it out.

- "Team redefinition" draft discussion

    Andrew: We've spent many times to discuss definition of 
            task/job, etc. They are heavily overloaded and is
            not productive to use these words.

            In order to concretely describe the notions e.g. 
            "provisioning", Mark and I decide to use new terms.

    Hiro: Do you plan to use these teams in the OGSA document?

    Andrew: No, not decided at this time. We don't ask whole 
            Group to use these terms in the long run. Mark and
            I want to describe how to provision, deploy, and
            Configuration in general case.

    Ravi: How this draft deviates from the existing EMS document? 
          Is it just re-write using new teams?

    Mark: This is almost the same. Only addition is "actor 
          description". It is describing
          (1) How to provision the "actor" (= job).
          (2)Which information is necessary for provision ("actor
             Descriptor").

    Andrew: "Actor" is somewhat equal to "job". "Solution" is
            sort of "Job manager". "actor descriptor" describe
            how to install and configure in simple case.

    Mark: "actor descriptor" is NOT "job document." It is abstract
          description of job type rather than an existing thing.
          Two concepts:
          (1) Collection of all what needed for the "job"
          (2) Generic way of describing "type of job"
          Not only job's metadata but also data themselves.

    Ravi: There are huge overlap with "ACS" proposal by Andreas 
          and Keisuke.

    Mark and Andrew: We have not seen ACS proposal. Maybe, great
          minds think the same.

    Action: Hiro: Send ACS proposal to Mark and Andrew.

    Mark: Another addition to existing EMS text is detailed 
          description of provisioning, how to caching reconcile
          files.
          The other part is almost the same as exiting text.

    Andreas: Propose to go through offline review for this document.
          Let's have another discussion at upcoming OGSA F2F meeting.

    AGREED: No another call before F2F but continue discussion.
    AGREED: Andrew will send out his document to small group for 
            discussion and then send out to the whole list around 
            say Dec. 1st.

Meeting adjourned at one and half hour mark.

