OGSA Teleconference - 30 October 2006
=====================================

* Participants

  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Tom Roney (NSCA)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Alan Sill (TTU)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Apologies: Dave Snelling, Michel Drescher, Tom Maguire

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* October 26 minutes approved with minor changes
  - Explanatory changes proposed by Alan S
  - Minor formatting changes by Hiro K

* Action Item Review

  [Only items with updates or discussion are listed below]

   AI-0915a: - Andreas is working on putting together a list.
             - Ellen will check if an IBM person can also give a BPEL
               overview, possibly at the F2F

* Postponed CIM Profile education session for Thursday's call

* November F2F (OGSA16) update

  The latest version is on the wiki
  http://forge.gridforum.org/sf/wiki/do/viewPage/projects.ogsa-wg/wiki/2006NovF2F

  - Agreed to the following changes:
    - Move the Security session to Thursday morning to allow other
      participants (David Chadwick) to dial in.
    - Move part of Info model to Thursday afternoon
    - Shorten EMS roadmap to 30 minutes  
    - Make the SML education session 1 hour
      - It is too early to consider adopting SML since it is not in a
        standards body. But it is a good idea to get an overview.
      - Ellen will try to get the right person to give this overview

  - Friday morning session needs more refinement.
    - As discussed on the JSDL call last week one output of this
      session could be the identification of potential JSDL-WG work
      items or deliverables.

* OGF/DMTF Register review

  Review of milestones and dates based on the draft posted by Ellen
  Stokes.

** Review of DSP0225 (URI & XML Schema)
   
   This document should be reviewed by both DAIS-WG and OGSA-WG since
   these were the groups requesting this work.

   Ellen will lead the review in OGSA-WG.

   AI-1030a: Ellen will contact the DAIS-WG chairs and request they
                arrange a review DSP0225

** Review of DSP02300, DSP0227, and preliminary version for WSDM/CIM

    Fred Maciel and Ellen Stokes will lead the review in OGSA-WG

*** Target dates and outcome

  Target date for both reviews is 1Q2007.
  
  Expected outcome: If there are any problems then report them back to
           the DMTF groups that produced these specs. Or accept them
           as is.

  These are all in the preliminary standard stage. They can still be
  changed before they go to Final. They have been issued recently
  (last Q) and should be in preliminary state for the next 6-9 months.

  AI-1030b: Ellen will check when the DMTF documents are expected to
            become Final.

** Submit the general container model 

   It must first be published by OGF. The suggested date of Jan. 2007
   seems to be too tight.
   - Agreed to changing the date to 1Q2007.

** Identify base set of grid resources

   The expected output here is analogous to that for the generalized
   container model, derived from the BES work.
   - This could be a new model or changes to existing models
   - XQuery work is also related to this item. For example, are there
     any changes to existing models to accomodate the matchmaking
     approach?
   - Alan raised the issue of spoofing attacks and whether there will
     be a suggested architectural approach to mitigate this risk.
     - For example, mechanisms to ensure that resources advertise
       themselves correctly; and detection of malicious or erroneous
       resource advertisement. Or how to make sure that resources
       really belong to a specific VO.
     - Joint work with the security team would be appropriate
     - From the point of view of security this may already be a solved
       problem (e.g., application of certificates and signatures to
       advertisements). The real issue is that existing approaches are
       not being put to practice because there is no architectural
       requirement.
     - Agreed to record this as an issue for the Information Modeling
       team, as part of the advertisement/consumption model
     - Agreed to discuss this issue as part of the security session at
       the F2F.

** Identify relationships and future requirements.

   Agreed that Ellen is the best person to lead work on these items. 

   Both Tom Roney and Hiro volunteered to help out. 

** Other discussion 

   DMTF sees this work register as a periodic update. But a more
   fluid/continuous-engagement approach may be more appropriate.

   Minor corrections: 
   - Mark Linesch is now OGF President
   - Ellen is now Management AD

  AI-1030c: Ellen will make the necessary revisions and then send the
           document to Mark Carlson (DMTF) for review

* New teleconference timeslots

  - With the end of summer time, new timeslots start with this call:
    - Monday slot is optimized for US
    - Thursday slot is optimized for UK/Europe 
    - No call is optimized for Japan
    - Hiro divides the topics as appropriately as possible to
      accomodate different participants requirements

* Glossary discussion

  - e-Science: 
    - Definition seems acceptable
    - This term is only used once in OGSA Arch 1.5, and perhaps it
      should be removed from future versions. It is here primarily
      because it is used by OGF.
    - Considered and rejected adding 'e-business'
      - It is also used once in OGSA Arch 1.5 and is too broad; also
        is not used in the OGF organization.
  - Enterprise and related terms
    - 'Enterprise computing' is not defined by EGA Glossary;
      'enterprise applications' is defined instead.
    - Modified the definition from "business unit" to "organizational
      units" to make it more general
    - 'Enterprise' is also frequently (and casually) used in academic
      institutions, especially with the change from the older
      printer/user-accounting model to broader service-based
      offerings.
    - Is it worth trying to sub-classify enterprise computing as
      attempted here, or stay with a more general definition
    - Is it a goal to identify business use cases vs institutional
      ones
    - Agreed to change the sentence on "large organization" to
      emphasize instead the application of a consistent set of
      practises across the organization
    - Is it appropriate to continue referring to EGA Reference Model?
      Agreed to just refer to it as the Reference Model.
    - Should other enterprise-related terms be kept in the glossary?
      - Need more ex-EGA member participation to make decision on
        whether to delete or not.

  Jem will make necessary revisions.

* Roadmap discussion 

  - Chris Jordan has uploaded latest version of the Roadmap
    document. There are some open issues but it is coming close to
    completion.
    - Missing HPC Profile and HPC Use Case sections. Since there is no
      response from the authors drafts will be written up by the team.
    - Web service context needs review
    - Need more input for the DMI and Security Profile referenced
      specifications. 
    - Sections 7 and 8 need Hiro's review. 
  - Hiro has the pen at the moment
  - The next Roadmap call is scheduled for Nov.8 
    - Hiro will miss it since he is traveling on that day
  - The plan is to have a final draft ready by the OGSA F2F and start
    an official final call after the meeting.

