OGSA Teleconference - 30 November 2005
======================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (EMC)
  Steve McGough (IC)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Apologies: Steven Newhouse

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* November 28 minutes approved with no changes

* UML tool update

  - RSM was chosen; no objections so far. 
  - Ellen is following up on how to get licenses.
    - (It is used by DMTF already so it is possible.)

* Meeting planning 

** GGF16

  - Proposal to organize just the default 2 sessions. 
    - It worked well last time and also allowed WG members to attend
      other sessions as well. The separate one day F2F should allow
      enough time for more detailed discussions.
    - One session could be 'Outreach'. But 'Outreach' last time was
      not well attended. There are two possibilities:
      - Andrew G's proposal to have a 'Town Hall' style meeting
        instead. Talk with Andrew to get more details
      - An outreach session as a 'deep-dive' for a specific capability
        to introduce the group's work in more detail.
    - The second session was a joint-wg discussion. Last time it was
      EMS-CDDLM. Having a similar joint discussion with another group
      might be a good idea.

  - The deadline for session requests is Dec. 14. 
    - Groups requesting sessions after Dec 2 must have an up-to-date
      charter; not a problem since OGSA's new charter was approved
      recently.

** GGF16 B2B F2F

  - OGSA-WG has been asked not to overlap its B2B F2F with GGF
    sessions. So this time the back-to-back meeting will be on Friday
    only.
  - A room at IBM Athens has been reserved. But it may not have
    internet access. 
   - Hiro is also looking for a room at a University in Athens and if
     it offers internet access the meeting may be moved there instead.
  - In any case a final decision for the venue should be made by the
    end of December.

** GGF16/F2F Actions

  - Hiro will send out a topic request to the list
    - For both the GGF16 joint session and for the one day F2F. The
      choice for the joint session to be based on people's
      availability (and whether they can attend the Friday F2F) and
      how big the topic is (fits in 90 minutes).
    - Review choices next week

** Jan. 2006 interim meeting

  - Agenda reviewed once on a call. Hiro is updating it and will
    review it once more. 
  - Hiro will also do a zoomerang survey to confirm people's
    availability.

* BES Information model review

  - Ellen sent out a ppt before the call. Only slide 4 was reviewed on
    the call.  (Slides 1-3 are carried over from an earlier
    presentation and slide 5 is redundant and will be deleted.)

  - Slide 4 is based on work between Ellen, Andrew and Mark and is a
    first step in working out the minimal set of required and optional
    information for a BES container.
  - At this point, this work does not consider activities that may be
    started within the container.

** Operating System:
  - It seems to be accurate for a server box but does it cover other
    possibilities such as 'Java VM' or batch system (e.g., PBS)?
    - This is probably covered by the value of OSType.
  - Is this the best way to map to CIM?
    - There are probably some missing bits. The motivation is for this 
      to describe an operating environment
    - The attributes are constrained to be specific to a BES container
      but it is expected that there will be a new class in CIM
      (Service Container) and that the BES container will be the
      constrained profile version of this Service Container (and not a
      subclass).
    - The classes are not shown yet

  - Other attributes: These are attributes that need to be explored
    further.  E.g., libraries/packages are actually part of the
    application model in CIM and it is not clear how best to fit them
    in yet.

** Processor:
   - What is the difference between the '# of processes' here and the
     'number of processes' in the Operating System?
     - It is not clear and needs to be reviewed again.
   - 'Load for computer systems', '# of processes': They don't seem so
     specific to Processor.
   - (Have to also think of virtualization: What is real or virtual in
     CIM. This is an ongoing discussion within CIM.)
 
** Networking  
   - This is just an initial attempt. Current scheduling systems do
     not require this kind of information.
   - Still it seems strange that even simple descriptions such as the
     number of cards or their bandwidth are not part of the Optional
     list.
   
** Disk
  - Not discussed yet. To revisit later.

** Filesystem
   - Why is 'casesensitive' or 'filesystemtype' optional?
     - Most systems do not use these for scheduling

** ServiceContainer
   - The attributes listed after the first two items in the list
     should be optional not required.

** Management interfaces
   - Which of these are functional vs management interfaces? There are
     different perspectives, with the consensus that 'Stop' and
     'Start' are probably management but less sure about the rest.
   - This is another item to discuss again in more detail within the
     design team. 

** Overall

   - Consensus that this is a good step forward. It does need more
     work.
   - How many pages would a completed profile take? 
     - It should not exceed 50 pages.

   - Next review? 
     - Ellen's schedule is full in December. Work will continue within
       the smaller group and it may be possible to have another review
       in January before the F2F.

   - Jan 9 is probably the only full OGSA call possible in January
     before the F2F(+). But a smaller group could use one of the call
     slots to have a review.

 (+) Note: GFSG meeting is planned for the week before the OGSA F2F.
 
* MDC presentation review

  - Reviewed presentation posted by Ravi to gridforge. Fred made
    revisions on the presentation during the call. Summary of main
    changes below:
    - Add EMC to Contributors slide
    - 'Concepts and Fundamental' document should be changed to
      Architecture document
    - Add that OGSA profiles are styled after WS-I profiles and are
      extensions of WS-I BP etc
    - Naming - details are under discussion but at an abstract level
      the content is ok
    - Need more graphics for OGSA Data: Ravi to ask Dave B
    - Newer version for 'Typical Pattern': Andreas to send to Ravi
      (Done)
    - Add CMM GFD # and also do the same for other published documents
      showing on the slides.
  - Comments to Ravi by Monday latest. The presentation is planned for
    Tuesday.
  - Fred will upoad as next version, tidy up the folder and send email
    how to uploade new versions of existing documents. (Done)

* Next call

** Monday

  - 'BSP - Secure channel profile' (draft expected Friday)
  - Architecture and Glossary 1.5 review

** Wednesday 
   - Naming & EMS
