OGSA telephone conference
=========================

25 January 2007

Participants
------------
Hiro Kishimoto, Fujitsu
Ellen Stokes, IBM
Michel Drescher, Fujitsu
Andreas Savva, Fujitsu
Chris Kantarijev, Oracle
Steve McGough, Imperial College
Alan Sill, University of Texas
Jem Treadwell, HP
Andrew Grimshaw, UoV
Donal Fellows, UoM
Bahareh Rahmanzadeh

Minutes: Michel Drescher


1) Early discussion
===================
- Telecon minutes approval
  -- 22 Jan 07 approved without modifications
- Action Items status review
  -- see below
- Agenda bashing
  -- Alan Sill would like to talk about the recent development on
     authentication
     --- Hiro schedules this topic for today's agenda item on
         OGF19 planning

2) OGF19 sessions update
========================
- OGSA security session
  -- A lot of discussions about HPC profile, OGSA seccurity and Authentication
  -- Involved persons are invited to the OGSA security session at OGF19
  -- Alan Sill has a discussion with Blair Dillaway about this
     --- Blair and Alan seem being on the same page with respect to 
         authentication 
  -- we should reach an agreement in the security session to separae the
     currently involved documents in an agreed way
     -- Security relatedd documents need consensus, support and contributions
         across OGF working groups
  -- Alan will talk separately to involved parties (particularly Blair
     Dillaway) in the OGSA-AuthZ session on Monday morning inviting them to 
     the OGSA security session
- The group briefly discusses the session agendas of the remaining OGSA sessions
- Logistics discussion (new conf call structure etc.) are added to the agenda
  of OGSA session 2. If this won't work, this discussion will overflow into
  the agenda of OGSA session 3.

3) March F2F update
===================
- Most preferrable date seem be 13 - 15 March
- Location seem to be preferred as well
- date of F2F will not be 27-29 March. 
- The group will discuss the final date and location at OGF19, session 2 or 3.

4) BES container model document review
======================================
- Thee group discusses the document "Container and Basic Execution Service
  Model in OGSA"
- Yesterday's changes of the BES document change needs to be checked against
  this document
- Any other comments please sen to Ellen

5) Wrap up (10 min)
===================
- no other business to discuss


Action Items
============
January 25 call
--------------

January 22 call
---------------

18 January call
---------------
AI-0118a: Jay Unger to provide a definition of state (for the glossary)
          --> open
AI-0118b: Ellen, Tom and Jay to look at WS-Policy nd assess any overlap
          with the current XQuery efforts
          --> open

AI-0118e: Andrew to draft invitation mail and publish to the list (and          to specific people) to draw attention to the OGSA Workflow          session
          --> open

AI-0118f: Michel to invite A-Ware and other EU projects for BPEL          coverage at OGF19 OGSA session 5          --> closed

15 January call---------------
AI-0115a: Ellen will send out the link to a DMTF feedback template form.
          --> closedAI-0115b: Ellen will summarize the review of the DMTF documents and          review the text at a future call.
          --> closed.
          Th document review is scheduled for the OGSA session 4 at OGF1930 November 2006 call
---------------------AI-11.30a: Michel to talk with Tom and Ellen on how to go about documenting
           his current proof of concept in the Info model Arch doc.
           --> open, call has been scheduled
9 November 2006, F2F
--------------------AI.11.09.pm-a: Ellen and Tom to write up a "Information Model profile
               document: BES Container"               --> open, call scheduled for tomorrow afternoon

AI.11.09.pm-c: Andrew to produce a document drafting the definition of QoS               --> open

AI.11.09.pm-d: Andrew to contact the HPCP WG regarding future involvement 
               to create profile(s) on, e.g. BES, JSDL etc.               --> open

15 September 2006, F2F
----------------------
AI-0915d: Tom will post BP base faults issue to tracker          --> open
17 August 2006 call
-------------------AI-0817a: Dave Berry and Jay Unger will approach groups (GIN, Globus, etc) 
          that have implemented practical grids and start a discussion on 
          how they handle data:          - how data is treated as a resource that can be scheduled          - how transfers are modeled          - how files are advertised          - how applications find files (query, by knowledge,?)            (Due Oct. 9)          --> open
20 July 20 2006, F2FEGR-WG (Ravi) will contact Geoffrey Fox and invites him to contribute use cases              --> open
Andreas to go through the minutes and formulate a reply mail to Geoffrey on
           each artifact covered in these minutes.           --> open
Postponed:
----------Until next reference model call (Jan. 22nd):   AI-1023c: Tom volunteered to review Hiro's HPC Cluster use case             slides and make appropriate changes to indicate where the             CIM Profile would fit in and how it would link into the             Reference Model.   AI-1023d: Paul will add more items to list on slide 6 of the HPC             Cluster use case   AI-1023g: Hiro will look at other parts of slide 5 and identify             further possible refinements of this use case.