OGSA Teleconference 29 September 2004
=====================================

* Participants

  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Dave Snelling  (Fujitsu)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

  Apologies: Andrew Grimshaw

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* OGSA v1 and Glossary public comments feedback to GFSG

  - Documents are now in "15 day final review" by GFSG
  - Do we think that there are no major issues and we can fix the
    documents?
    - That's the way it looks like at the moment
      - (GGF12 summary did not include Dave's or Andrea's comments)
    - Thinking about 1 to 1 1/2 month
    - Dave will report to GFSG

  - Agreed to start discussing issues on the call; 
    - Hiro to allocate 1 hour next call: 30 minutes for glossary and
      document

* GGF12 review

  - (Most) minutes are on gridforge
    - Data minutes not uploaded yet
    - Security minutes are uploaded but still a bit incomplete (the
      last part)
      - Andreas trying to get Frank or Takuya to add some text
  - Presentations are also on line; see agenda for urls.

  - Not many people have reviewed them. 
  - Agreed to postpone approval for next week

  - Action: Andreas to draw up a list of actions/open issues from the
    minutes for next week

  - GGF12 session review
    - Lots of other groups got involved and discussed proposals. GSA
      in scheduling, etc. Lots of interest but now must convert it
      into more collaboration
    - Data: Plan to work closer with GFS to sort out architecture
    - EGR-RG volunteered to take over the OGSA use case documents
      - A collective decision; no single person identified
      - Consensus that this is a good thing and that OGSA-WG should
        let them take over the documents.
    - EGA will also publish their use cases; EGR should probably also
      look at those when they are available
      - (GGF - EGA collaboration is being discussed)
    - ACS BoF review
      - Good to do; unfortunately not that much support in the session
      - Did get statement of support to rewrite charter from Tom
        Studwell (IBM) (involved with Solution Installation)
      - Pete: Would like to get involved but still not sure about
        funding
      - Looking into collaboration over archive format (with SI)
    - Bubble-chart brochure: 
      - Not presented at GGF; not enough time to get it done
      - Might be distributed at SC'04
    - Data team F2F didn't work as well as expected; GGF sessions seem
      to work better if structured as collaboration rather than
      'normal' f2f meetings.

    - Some complaints from people about timing of sessions
      - Cannot avoid having many OGSA sessions. It is difficult to
        avoid overlaps but working on minimizing as far as possible.
    
  - GGF13: might follow  the same structure
    - 1 or 2 outreach sessions and then design team sessions
    - Make sure outreach sessions are done first
    - Some people seem to have difficulty getting funding to travel to
      Korea

* Use case document
  
  Skipped this week as Jeffrin is not on the call.

* F2F and teleconference

  - Discussed possible dates and locations for F2F
    - Collocation with SC04 (8-12/Nov) as a possibility or
      around that time
      - SC04: DaveS, DaveB will be attending.
      - Hiro willbe in the US just before SC04 for GFSG meeting.
    - Considering a second F2F sometime in late jan/early feb
      - GlobusWorld is early Feb
      - EGEE review is also the same week as GlobusWorld.
      - DaveS: GFSG @SF, 12-14 Jan in US 
      - Bay area 10-11 Jan might be an good option

    - Action: Hiro to poll members for opinions and decide next call.

  - Teleconference schedule
    - Stay with one regular call on Wed.  
    - Leave Monday slot free for design teams
      - EMS might occur biweekly
      - Security: ?
      - RM: not sure
        - CMM-WG state:
          - Doc was submitted to GGF Editor. Not in public comment yet.
          - Once doc is published the WG could be closed
          - Could then transition 'fully' into an OGSA design team
    - Data has a separate slot already.

    - Action: Hiro to get schedule/plan of each design team lead and
      post a schedule.

    - Comment: Be aware that US/UK holidays are often on Monday's; if
      choose alternating weeks for different teams some teams might
      end up not having calls for a long time.
    
* Roadmap discussion

  - Skipped since Ian, Andrew, and Jay are not available.

* Action item review

  - Adding an 8th question:
    - Resolved to specifically mention OGSA in Q4
      - DaveS: Checked the revised seven questions document and OGSA
        is mentioned
    - Closed.

  - WSDM Events
    - No update
    - Subteam not started yet
    - Maybe ask Fred to keep an eye on it for us since he should be
      more active in WSDM now he has moved to the US.

  - AR notes: no update

  - MDS representative: no update

  - Core design team: 
    - Decided not to form another team. Instead will keep it informal
      and take time on regular calls.
    - Hiro to follow up with Jay.
