OGSA Teleconference - 28 November 2005
======================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Apologies: Peter Ziu

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* Minutes Nov 21 approved with no changes

* Jan 2006 F2F 

  - To be held at Sunnyvale. Proposed agenda is on gridforge.
  - The recommended hotel is the Corporate Inn.

* OGSA 1.5: Infrastructure section review

  Reviewed new text in the infrastructure section. Some concerns were
  raised about the text discussing multiple profiles. There has not
  been any work on a second basic profile since the last GGF so saying
  'defining' is not accurate---'allowing' may be better.

  Also there is a technical issue with saying that WS-Management is
  functionally equivalent to WSRF.

  Action: Jay volunteered to provide revised text for section 3.3.6
          for review in a future call.

* Basic Security Profile discussion

  - Agreed with proposal outlined in the email sent by Andreas to the
    list: separate out portions of the 'Secure channel' in a new Basic
    secure profile.

  - Takuya is working on removing those parts out of the Secure
    Channel and he will prepare a new draft this week.
  - Takuya will also prepare the new Basic security profile document

  - These drafts are not ready so their review is postponed for future
    calls. (The secure channel may be reviewed Wednesday if ready.)

* Glossary review

  - Reviewed the Acronym list proposed by Olegario, using the normal
    policy---include OGSA related acronyms, consider non-OGSA grid
    acronyms, and do not include general acronyms.

  - Decisions recorded by Jem and will be uploaded to gridforge
    tracker. Only actions relating to the Architecture document are
    recorded here:
  
  - Consider adding footnote for CORBA (Andreas)
  - Review usage of DBMS and also RDMBS and ODMBS (Andreas)
  - EMS should probably be consistenly OGSA-EMS (Andreas)
  - EU: Change citation to VOMS and spell out EU instead (Andreas)
  - LDAP, RDMBS: have a look at usage of section 3.7.5 (Andreas)
  - PII: Andreas to check with Frank or Takuya
  - VLANs: Andreas to check if RM text can be rewritten

* MDC presentation review

  - Postponed review---no quorum.
  - Andreas will send editable OGSA v1 figures to Ravi
  - Jem will send the 'refererenced standards' slides to Ravi
  - Andreas will arrange for a review of the slides for the next
    meeeting: preferably towards the end of the meeting.
