OGSA Teleconference - 12 May 2008 - WSRF BP
===========================================

Attendees:
  Mark Morgan
  Michel Drescher
  Vivian Li
  Hiro Kishimoto
  Andreas Savva
  Shiraz Memon
  Donal Fellows (note taker)

  Apologies: Dave Snelling

Minutes: approved (3/4/08, 24/4/08)

AI: no items to review (Andrew Grimshaw not present)

WSRF BP INTEROP

  Come to a halt because of issues with RPs.
    AGREED: Change RP definitions as proposed, no dissention

  Notification Topics (encoding of namespaces for XPath):
    AI (Michel): Contact Rachana Ananthakrishnan from Globus
      directly to check that this is OK.

  How to proceed:
    Write up experiences from current interop round.
    No re-interop for RP changes.
    Try for another round of interop on notification, but
      only after draft of changes done.

    AI (Vivian): Start writeup of experience document; other
                 participants to supply info as required

AOB

  Next call: 29 May 2008, slot 1
