OGSA-WG Teleconference -- 2 October 2003
========================================

* Participants

  Shel Finkelstein (SUN)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  (Minutes: Andreas Savva)

* Last teleconf's minutes - approved

  A GGF9 session to discuss Jeff Nick's comments has been scheduled.

* Chair invitation status

  Not all invited groups have replied.

  Proposal: Drop from our session schedule the groups that don't reply.

** Data session

  Action: Jay volunteered to contact DAIS, OREP representatives
          - Bill Allcock (DAIS)
          - Ann Chervenak (OREP)

** Core session

   Agreed: Bill will do RUS presentation
   Agreed: Change schedule to present UR first before RUS
   Agreed: Frank takes over security presentation from Jay.

** PE session

   Agreed: Move policy discussion to program execution session
           instead.
        Comments: 
          - Core session seems overloaded.
          - GRAAP (scheduled for PE) will cover some policy aspects
            anyway so it seems natural to move policy discussion
            there.
          - WS-Policy 
            - What is the IP status? Still unclear.
            - Jay got update about usage of WS-Policy in WS-Agreement and
              doesn't think that there are technical problems anymore.
            
            Action: Jay to send link that includes more (updated)
                    information on WS-Policy. (Follow up to an existing
                    tracker item.)

   Action: Jay to ask Asit Dan to arrange for someone working on
             policy to participate.
        
** Platform session

   Only CMM is confirmed at this point.

   Agreed: Some introductory stuff (taxonomy/hierarchy) scheduled for
           this session should be discussed/presented earlier.
   Action: Fred to move this part of his presentation to the
           overview (first) session. Confirm with Ian.

* OGSA document discussion
  
  Reviewed Tracker items that relate to the GGF9 deadline only. Skip
  the rest at this time.

    - 125   Services not Interfaces     
            > Skip

    - 126   Profiles                    
            > Skip

    - 128   Service Domain  Service Collection 
            > Waiting for text from Jay.

    - 130   Missing services (Sec. 3.2)   
            > Hiro to check whether Jay has an updated version.

    - 351   Add text on What is OGSA
            > Skip

    - 353   Add a glossary 
            > Hiro to check with Andrew Grimshaw

    - 356   Revise section 5 using service template
            > We are doing it.

    - 401   High level concepts to ogsi terminology mapping
            > Skip

    - 407   Possible to decorate a VO with policy.
    - 408   VO create and add/remote are separate operations
    - 409   portType for VO members to describe memberships
    - 411   VO modifications agreed at 20030903-04 F2F
            > Hiro to check whether Jay has an updated version.

    - 413   Need more detail in discovery section
            > Hiro to check whether Ian has an updated version.

    - 421   Add support for self-* features
            > Skip

    - 436   Review Comments from Jeff Nick
            > Scheduled session for GGF9

    - 446   Additional text for taxonomy & hierarchy sections
            > Hiro to check whether Dave has something.
  
  - Topic tracker - skip

    Note: 416 & 417 are done.
  
  - Use case tracker - skip.

* Sub-groups update

** Logging

   Have had 2 calls already. Focus on requirements.

   Action: Bill to update logging subsection in the OGSA document
           according to subgroup discussion. (Not for GGF9.)

   Agreed: Logging subgroup will try to become a WG; BoF @GGF10.

   Proposal: Should the OGSA-WG define a process for spawning
             subgroups and deciding the right time to push them to
             becomes GGF WGs?

** PE

   Have had a call.

