OGSA Teleconference - 22 June 2005
==================================

* Participants

  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC, ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwel (HP)

  Apologies: Tom Maguire

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes approval

  Minutes of June 13, 15 and 20 approved with no changes.

* GGF14 preparation

  Reviewed sessions and assignments

** Session 1

   - Hiro and Tom to give overview of OGSA activities.
   - Jem and Tom to give overview of the three documents (Profile
     definition, WSRF Basic Profile, Roadmap). A more detailed look at
     the documents in session 3.

** Session 2

   - Andrew to lead.
   - It conflicts with MWS-BoF.
   - Fred volunteered to lead this EGA session if Andrew decides to
     attend the MWS-BoF instead.

** Session 3

   - More detailed look at Profile definition, WSRF BP and Roadmap
     documents.

   - Hiro is looking for a place to have the "Next Step"
     discussion. Since Tom will attend only on Tuesday Hiro is
     thinking of using part of this session.

   Action: Hiro to talk to Tom and arrange a slot for the "Next Step"
           discussion; possibly in this session.

** Session 4   

   - Andrew to lead.
   - DMTF Utility WG wants a half-hour for a presentation(?)
   - Note this is not the RSS-BoF. The BoF is on the next day.
   - Conflicts with a Resource management session.

** Session 5   

   - Since the OGSA Naming-WG has been approved this is not an OGSA-WG
     session anymore.
   
** Session 6   

   - Fred is looking for a minute taker.
   - This is a working session; focus is technical discussion.

** Session 7   

   - Fred is looking for a minute taker. 
   - Resource Model discussion (another working session)
   - Unfortunately this conflicts with security, data transfer, etc.

** Session 8   

   - In-depth technical discussion about WSDM

** Session 9   

   - How to use WSDM in OGSA specifications
   - Plan is for 
     - WSDM presentation
     - CDDLM presentation
     - OGSA BP presentation
       - Need someone to give this presentation or Fred may do it
         himself if there is a ready presentation. 
       - Fred to look into using the slides from Session 3. (Probably
         Tom's.)

   (There is a separate WSDM demo session. But it conflicts with many
   OGSA sessions. Fred will ask for the WSDM demo to start early so
   that if people leave the town hall meeting early (say 15 minutes
   earlier) they can still have a look.)

** Session 10 

   Recently an OGSA-AuthZ document was submited. One topic here should
   be to clarify the role of this document since it uses the 'OGSA'
   name.

   There are also a number of data related security issues. But due to
   conflicts Dave B is planning to arrange a separate teleconf after
   GGF14 to discuss them.
   
** Session 11  

   Abdeslem is the owner of this session. Hiro will follow up with
   him.

** Session 12  

   - This is the design team review meeting. Unfortunately many people
     cannot attend: Tom, Fred, Takuya, and Frank.

   - Team leaders who cannot attend should write up slides and ask
     someone else to present them.

** Other 

   There has been no request for a phone bridge for any session.  Hiro
   is not planning not set up one this time.

   There is a WSDM F2F in the IBM building, approximately 1 mile away
   from the hotel. It will be on Thursday and Friday and WSDM TC
   members can attend.

* Profile definition review

  Discussed the document state and how likely it is to be able to
  submit this week. It looks difficult but doable. But it may have to
  be a very short final call. In any case submitting at the end of
  this week is partly symbolic---the group can say the document was
  submitted at the outreach session at GGF14.

  - Reviewed Jem's version (later revised and uploaded to gridforge by
    Andreas as v1.013)

  - Reviewed revised table
    - Jem added legend and fixed the formatting of the table.

  - Discussed using 'document' to mean 'profile or specification' in
    certain cases. Agreed it's ok, if it is in a context that does not
    cause confusion. The usage should be explained in advance, perhaps
    by putting a sentence in the "Terminology" section.

  - Section 3.3:  
    - Added text (bullets) as proposed by Hiro. But the two sets say
      similar things. Reduced to one. 
    - Also made the distinction between the bullets clearer
      (mandatory/optional distinction).

  - Started making a distinction between 'profile' and 'Profile'
    - Andreas will re-check usage during his review (done)

  - Added statement that informational profile references must also be
    consistent.

  - Added acknowledgments. 
    - Discussed whether to have separate Contributors but decided that
      it is not important for this document.
    - Discussed who to add. Looked up recent review meetings and
      put a list together.
    - The list needs to be reviewed.

  - Introduction
    - An introduction section is needed.
    - Andreas to do a first pass. (done)

  - Adoption of profile
    - It was discussed and agreed on an earlier call that it is not
      correct to talk about a profile being implemented/adopted. But
      some text is needed to explain why. 
    - Drafted text (profiles define compliance targets not
      implemention targets) and Andreas will review and possibly
      revise. (done)

  - Review Dave S's comment on adding more explanation on why adoption
    level does not apply to the entire referenced specification but
    only to those parts that are used in a conformance target.
    - Added text and Andreas will review and possibly revise for next
      version (done).

  - Jem will send his working draft to Andreas. Andreas will revise
    and upload the next draft within the day. (done)

* Basic Profile review

  Tom could not make the call. Reviewed some BP security issues with
  Takuya.

  - Andreas cannot confirm the security related artifacts on the BP
    tracker. He asked Takuya to check these and post a comment in each
    artifact whether it can be closed or not. Andreas will then close
    them.
  - Appendix E review (security)
    - A number of minor comments from Hiro.
    - l.782 WS-Addressing reference should be to 1.0
    - l.785 Delete the line
    - l.810-830: The XML fragment needs reformating
    - l.830-845: Dangling references
    - Takuya to check comments on appendix E and make updates. (Talk
      with Tom about getting the pen on the document or just update
      the appendix and send it to Tom.)
  