Minutes of the OGSA Data Design Team telcon, 23rd February 2005

0) Actions outstanding
- Dave to write draft charter for ByteIO WG
- Mark to prepare document describing the draft ByteIO interface
- Simon to mail the list about different types of metadata: data
resource vs. service.
- Mark to mail around URL of notes from London meeting
- Dave to revise the current "straw man" document for next week
- Dave to prepare concrete proposal for initial data profile (ByteIO, RNS, DAIS, GridFTP?)


1) Early discussion
* Roll call 
Fred Maciel, Hitachi
Andrew Grimshaw, UVa
Mark Morgan, UVa
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Dave Berry, NeSC (Chair and note taker)
Susan Malaika, UVa

* Apologies
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Simon Laws, IBM

The minutes from 26th January were approved.

The agenda was not altered.


2) Update on outstanding actions
- Simon to mail the list about different types of metadata: data
resource vs. service.
- Dave to mail Allen about the new proposed time slot [Not done - hence
no change for this week]
- Dave to double-check AG arrangements for the London meeting with
Steven [Done]
- Dave to mail Andrew about BOF for BasicFiles [Done - see agenda item]


3) BOF preparation
We discussed the ByteIO BOF.  We need to prepare a draft charter and draft interface to circulate.  This will
be discussed on tonight's full OGSA WG call as well.

Dave to write charter.  Address 7 questions, timeline, exit strategy, relation to APIs, etc.  Timeline - aim to have draft and two implementations by June / July.

Mark to prepare draft interface, removing directory stuff and adding UML.

4) Report from F2F meetings

* London (subset of Data Team)

Mark has written up notes on GridForge.  
Mark to mail around URL.

Quick summary of topics covered:
- "Tubes" linking services
- ByteIO read i/f available for all (or most) data sources
- Specifying result types as part of query requests (and possible problems implementing an extensible i/f in Web Services)
- Whether cursors should be held on the client or the server
- Contents of initial data profile

Dave to revise the current "straw man" document

Dave to prepare concrete proposal for initial data profile (ByteIO, RNS, DAIS, GridFTP?)

* Chicago (full OGSA WG)

Day 1 primarily discussed the Base Profile

Day 2 included discussion of naming - RNS, abstract names, EPR.  Abstract names don't assume WSRF.  EPRs also don't assume WSRF.  There will be a Naming BOF at GGF.  Some mention of ByteIO.

5) Wrap up

AOB - Dave and Allen briefly revisited the question of specifying result types and decided that this is potentially very hard.  The suggestion is to leave this for "version 2" of the data architecture.

DONM - March 2nd, half-an-hour earlier.

