Summary of conference call August 17, 2004

  In attendance:

   Larry Flon         <flon@isi.edu>
   Hemant S Kolwalkar <hskolwal@us.ibm.com>
   Susan Malaika      <malaika@us.ibm.com>
   Tom Roney          <troney@ncsa.uiuc.edu>

Reference for this meeting:

   From Minutes of Telecon 3-Aug-2004 

      Plan for next teleconference:

	Next telecon is scheduled for August 17.
        We will have a report from Hemant on MOF progress,
        and some answers from Larry about working with the 
        DMTF.   We will also plan our work at GGF12 in Brussels.

GGF12: -----------------------------------------------

   We have five weeks until GGF12.  Hoping to discuss the
   CIM Tutorial, but, with Andrea not on the call, this may
   have to be an email exchange.

   Susan has a conflict with our Thursday-morning schedule
   for the CGS-WG. We will look into modifying the schedule
   such that the first Wednesday session will be reserved for
   the CGS/DAIS work.  This will move the tutorial sessions,
   bumping each one to the next CGS-WG session, and 
   running the last tutorial on Thursday morning.  Larry will 
   follow up with  email, checking with the DMTF speakers to 
   make sure this change in scheduling is not going to 
   interfere with travel plans, etc.

   Our session hours are:

         Wed Sept 22  11-12:30, 3:30-5, 7:30-9
         Thu Sept 23   9-10:30

   We also have a day-long "orientation" Tue Sept 21 

Review of interactions with DMTF: ---------------------

   What is the status of CIMv3 model? . . . So we can 
   determine where we hook our work into.

   Waiting on the DMTF Architecture Working Group.
   Larry states that, according to Andrea, the class
   hierarchy will not change very much, so most DMTF
   working groups are working within the CIMv2 architecture.
   As for where we hang our work on the model, the DMTF's
   Database Woring Group is discussing it.

   As to whether we can use the DMTF Database Working
   Groups' documents . . . yes, it is free to use, but we
   must have a line of attribution within our work.  Larry
   will begin work on the creation of a template for our
   document, gleaning what is pertinent from the DMTF docs.
   How much English language do we want to put into the GGF
   document vs. what is in the MOF?  We will do something
   along the lines of the JSIM doc.  What DAIS wants out of
   this is XML.  Susan will discuss this with the DAIS group
   to see if this is going to be the responsibility of the
   CGS Working Group or not.

   What is required to get DMTF approval for the MOF we
   produce?  The IBM Rose tool creates syntactically-correct
   MOF, and Andrea has said that she can do any manual 
   overrides.

Hement, and MOF progress: -----------------------------

   This discussion is summarized in what is already stated
   above, in the above notes regarding the "Review of 
   interactions with DMTF."
