OGSA Teleconference 16 June 2004
================================

* Participants

  Jeffrin Von Reich (HP)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)

  Apologies: Jem Treadwell, Bill Horn, Andrew Grimshaw, Dave Berry

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* Minutes June 14, 2004 - approved with changes

  - The minutes state that
    "There are no WSDM/Data session slides on gridforge"
    
    It should be clarified that there were no slides for the WSDM/Data
    session.

* Agenda bashing

  - Postpone Common Resource Model discussion since Jay is not on the
    call. 
  - Postpone GGF minutes approval since no new minutes are available.

* Teleconference schedule

  - Agreed last time to reserve Monday for design teams and Wednesday
    for the general call. If no design team wants to use the slot no
    call will be scheduled.
  - Hiro would like to confirm with the other co-chairs too. But the
    decision stands for now.
  - No plan to use the Monday slot next week.
  - In general design teams should contact Hiro to arrange getting
    time on the Monday slot.

  Action: *For next week only* Hiro to contact the design team leaders
          to make sure that no-one really wants to use the Monday slot

* Next F2F 
  
  - Tentatively set for the week of Aug.15 at Silicon Valley to
    coincide (back to back) with the WSDM F2F.
  - Hiro hasn't heard from all WG members if this is acceptable.

  Action: Hiro to send a notice to the list. Aim to fix the dates and
          location at next week's general call (Wednesday).

* OGSA document version 1 (draft 18) review

  - Discussed Jem's comments

    - Section 3.1, para 2: "...the notion that every resource is
      virtual hasn't been discussed [earlier in the document]..."

      Action: To get the discussion rolling Latha (& Jem) to write
              some text on this and discuss with Ravi

    - "Figure 1 and other diagrams can't be edited in Word. ... it's
      important that the whole document can be edited using common
      tools..."
    
      - Agreed this is a valid point (but could be stated more broadly
        about Word itself).
      - Andreas thought he could edit the figures but he got similar
        comments from other people too.
      
      Action: Andreas to re-check that the figures can be edited in
              Word and arrange conversion otherwise.

    - In the last para of 3.1.1, right under Figure 3: "modulate": 
      - What does this means and what is the point (intent) of the
        sentence.
        - Differing opinions: modeling or 'control/constraint/regulate'
      
      Action: Andreas to follow up with Jem and Ravi on the list

    - In 3.3.1, "objection to using On-Demand as an example... " rewrite
      to "in any dynamically-provisioned computing environment."

      - Andreas had made this change in a previous version but the
        change wasn't correctly propagated to draft-18.

      Action: Andreas to confirm with Andrew and make the change.

    - Sections 3.3.4 through 3.3.6 should be subsections of 3.3.3.
      Also there's an ordering problem - the scenarios make a lot of
      use of the subsequent paragraphs

      - Andreas caused this mismatch when merging in the last EMS text
        to draft-18. The sectioning hierarchy was an oversight. The
        ordering problem was caused by trying to re-arrange text to
        adhere with the agreed upon structure for all sections.
      - Agreed that it is not so important to have the same structure
        for all sections. Rather than rewriting the scenarios move
        them to the end of the EMS section (as they were in the EMS
        draft pre-merge).

      Action: Andreas to check with Andrew and revise.

    - OGSI remnats: In 3.3.8.1: "grid service instance", and 3.3.91
      "service data."
      
      Action: Andrew to restate, using WSRF terminology if appropriate.

    - In several places the phrase "implements the interfaces of a
      WSDM managed resource" is used. Options for stating it more
      precisely were discussed.
      - Agreed to revising to "implements some subset of the
        manageability interfaces of a WSDM managed resource."
      
      Action: Andreas to make a list of all locations and confirm with
              text owners that the change is acceptable.

  - Other comments:

    - Fred delegates authority on OGSA CMM text to Jem (and Latha)
      while he is away.
    




