OGSA Teleconfererence - 2 July 2007 - Logistics
===============================================

* Participants

  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Steven Newhouse (Microsoft)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVA)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* June 11 minutes approved with no changes

* Action Item Review

>  AI-0511c: Steve Newhouse volunteered to look into the possible next
>            documents for the EMS Architecture and draw up a proposal

  No update at this time.

>  AI-0611f: Dave S will use the HPC Profile wiki page as a starting
>            point and produce a first draft for the interop wiki page,
>            by the July 2 call

  Dave S has produced a draft in powerpoint format. This has to be put
  on the wiki.

>  AI-0611g: Jem will ask the people involved in the HP WSRF
>            implementation about the possibility of taking part in the
>            interop.

  No update.

>  AI-0611h: Once the wiki page is set up, Hiro will ask the IBM and HP
>            OGF Board members for their teams to take part. 
  
  Waiting for completion of AI-0611f


* Primer Review

  Andrew has uploaded a second version (Primer v2). This draft has
  text up to and including the EMS section. [Note this draft is also
  uploaded as the second version of the ogsa-primer document.]

  - Discussed whether only WS-Eventing should be mentioned since it
    looks like it will be the main spec after convergence. 
    - Agreed to leave both WS-Eventing and WS-Notification at this
      time.
  - An RSS overview (probably from Donal) is needed

  - Andrew is now reading the Data Architecture document. He will
    write up a section consistent with that document and then ask for
    the Data WG to check it.

  - Discussed the form of the Security section and whether it should
    just focus on already done specs; or discuss the end result of
    specs in progress; or a combination.
    - Agreed to describing the final form

  - Hiro asked Andrew to contact the AuthZ WG and ask them to provide
    a description of their work for inclusion in this document

  - Self-management: There has not been any work since the text for
    the OGSA Architecture (1.0) was written.
    - CDDLM and ACS specs are in support of this capability; but do
      not deal with self-management directly.
    - Agreed to a high-level description of what the final outcome
      might look. Keep it short.

  - Information services: There has not been a lot of work. INFO-D is
    one spec in this space and covers part of the story.

  - The "Putting pieces together" section should bring things
    together. No text yet.
  
  - Discussed whether the statement about MS supporting the HPC
    profile in its products is appropriate or not? 
    - Yes, if it comes from a public source and has not been revoked.

  - Andrew expects to have most text ready by the OGSA F2F. Agreed to
    a session to review the text. (See below)

* OGSA F2F (Aug 2007) Update

  - Agreed to the Corporate Inn as the chosen location
  - Fujitsu rate is at 129USD (a bit higher this time)

  - Discussed Schedule 
    - Add a Primer review session. 
      - Mark Morgan will stand in for Andrew

    - Steven N might have to arrive late and leave early. If so, then
      there might be a request to schedule the Workflow and DMI
      session on the middle day of the meeting

  - Group dinner set for Tuesday

* Next call

  - July 4th is a holiday and many people are on vacation all week. 
  - Hiro will send a mail to the list that the July 5 calls are
    canceled unless there is any objection
