OGSA Teleconference - 8 September 2004
======================================

* Participants

  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Bill Horn (HP)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Takuya Mori (NEC/ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
  Apologies: Ian Foster

* Minutes approval

  - Andreas confirmed that the document mentioned in the Naming
    minutes (Aug. 30) was an OGSA-DAI document.
  - (Dave Berry is following up on whether it is ok to release it.)

  - Aug. 30 and Sep. 1 minutes approved with no revisions.

* OGSA Specification v1 public comments 

  - A number of comments have been submitted in the last few
    days. Hopefully some more comments will be submitted by the
    deadline (Sep.10) but it now looks like the number of comments may
    be good enough.

* Agenda bashing

  - Agreed to postpone the roadmap document discussion
    - Ian had some comments on the revised version and it was decided
      that it would be better to have him on the call.

  Action: Hiro to re-schedule roadmap discussion. (Wednesday seems to
          be better than Monday for people on the call.)

  - Also postponed use case document discussion (review of revision
    based on public comments) for next week
    - Jeffrin is working on a revised version and should have it ready
      by that time.

* Action items review

  - 8th question: 
    - Andrew followed up with the  author of the "7 questions" document
    - Technically this point is already covered by question 4:
      "Relation with other WGs"
    - The consensus was that we should push to make it clearer
      especially since GGF is calling OGSA the flaship architecture.
      - It might be ok to just mention OGSA explicitly in question 4.

  - Involving people in WSDM's events work
    - Fred mentioned that it looks like WSDM is starting a sub-WG on
      this topic this or next week (Working on cross-section of CBE,
      WSMF and CIM; based on WS-N).

    Action: Fred will keep an eye on work progress and inform the
            group
    Action: Andreas to send reminder to Heather again

  - AR notes
    - Andrew did not receive a positive or negative response so far
    - Andrew to talk with people who brought it up; this will likely
      not be before GGF12.

  - MDS representative to Information Services team
    - Frank asked Ian; waiting for reply; will followup.
    - There was a proposal to merge Information services and Data
      - Does not seem widely supported
      - Agreed that it's better to have separate sessions at GGF12 and
        perhaps talk about this issue then.

  - Core design team
    - Hiro will contact Jay


* Bubble diagram text update

  - Andrew, Jem and Ravi had a teleconference with Steve Crumb to
    discuss whether this is the document that Steve had in mind.
  - Agreed that though it is a good document it is targeted at
    technical people. So it is not the marketing text that GGF had in
    mind.
    - It can still be used for GGF12 together with the bubble diagram.

  - A more marketing/management oriented text will be produced based
    on this draft
    - Focused on 'higher level objectives'
    - Not clear if this text can be done by GGF12
    - Ravi wants to be involved in this effort 

  Action: Jem to make pending changes and send out to the list for
          wider comments. Mention that deadline is end of business
          Thursday. (> Done)
          - Send result to Steve Crumb by Friday

  Comments: 
    - First sentence seems too formal for an introduction. Jem to
      rewrite.

* GGF12 planning

  - Switching a design team session with EMS second slot
    - Bill to look into whether it is ok to move the information
      service to the Tuesday morning slot (second slot of EMS)
    - Ravi requested that Naming be the first item on the information
      services agenda in this case.

  - EMS session: 
    - Ravi to send email to various groups and ask for participation.
    - Suggested: SRM Area directors, GRAAP, JSDL, DRMAA, GESA, CDDLM,
      GSA-RG, CGS
    - Also work on an agenda
    - Andrew to send contact info of SRM area directors
    - Andreas to send contact info of JSDL chairs

  - Information services: 
    - Bill to talk with Abdeslem on agenda and on re-scheduling the
      session.

  - Self-management: 
    - Andreas to followup with Jeffrin on the agenda

  - Security: 
    - Frank to send agenda
    - There is also a related security workshop. It deals with
      site-security issues. This workshop grew out of the GGF11
      session. 
      - Aim is to discuss both short term solutions and long term needs
      - Identify requirements and work on them 
    - This is a 2 person design team at the moment.
      - There were some volunteers at the last F2F. 
      - Agreed to meet and discuss how best to proceed in Brussels

* Teleconf schedule for next week

  - There are a number of things to do before GGF12
    - Proposed doing a Monday call in addition to the Wednesday one
    - (Preference is to do roadmap discussion on Wednesday; need to
      confirm with Ian.)

  Action: Hiro to send out agenda by the end of this week.
