OGSA Teleconference - 31 July 2006
==================================

* Participants

  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Ken Wood (Hitachi) 

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* July 13 minutes approved with no changes

* Summary of new actions

   ACTION: Ellen to send an email to Chris Jordan with the information
           needed to add these two documents to the OGSA Roadmap

  ACTION: Chris jordan to upload GFS and Roadmap minutes

  ACTION: Schedule a joint call with OGSA-Data to explain the
          Information model work before GGF18. 
          - This could be one agenda item on the joing EMS/Data call
            already being schedule.
          - Ellen is unavailable from Aug 18 to Sep 4.

* Action items review

  [Only items with updates are shown below]
  
  - Andreas and Hiro to revise the EMS scenario document (i.e. examples)
    so that proposal 2 is fulfilled
    + Andreas will merge Hiro's updates into the next draft

  - Michel to brain dump on difference between hold, suspend, cancel.
  - Michel to talk to Dave on BES design pattern.  
    + Both of these are OGSA-DMI and should be left to that WG. Delete
      from this list.
  
  - Steve McGough & Andreas to do a mapping from the current JSDL
    elements / terminology into the new information model structure
    (Proposed split into Description and Requirements)
    + This is for the September OGF but some discussion/review on a
      call before the meeting might be good. Leave it on the list but
      there is no need to review progress on each call. Check again at
      the next Information Model call.
    + Agreed to move the Information Model discussion from Aug'14 to
      Aug'17 so that a prospective participant from Italy can join.

  - Frank Siebenlist, David Snelling
     Inline the "informational document" (written by D. Snelling &
     F. Siebenlist) into the normative specification document
  - Mark Morgan
     Add the formal element declaration of the ReferenceResolver (and the new
     element and its type) to the normative document.
  - Andrew Grimshaw
     Clarify the document purpose (as being a specification rather a
     profile) and align with the OGSA formal formatting.
  - David Snelling, Frank Siebenlist
     The "Web Service Endpoint Address Identifier Profile" needs to be added to
     the formal WS-Naming specification.
  - unassigned (tentatively: Frank, David)
     Write up the ResolverReferral solution that has been discussed at GGF17
     and feed back into the WS-Naming group
    + These five actions are for OGSA-Naming and should be left to
      that WG. Delete from this list.

  - Marvin to do first draft of BES parallel state
             - draft schema
             - worked examples for identified specialized states
    Andrew and Dave S have volunteered to review the document
    + This action is for the HPC-Profile/BES-WG and should be deleted
      from this list.
    
  - BES-WG chairs to ask the data group to define the
    filesystems as their work product 
    + This is BES & Data action and fits in a more general discussion
      between EMS & Data. Include it on an agenda of a joint EMS/Data
      call.

* July F2F minutes review

** Discussed ways of making the meeting materials more approachable.
   - Agreed as proposed by Andreas that in the future the
     Agenda/Meeting overview should be done in the Wiki and that it
     should be updated with links to the minutes and presentations of
     each session. Also a short conclusion to each session should be
     put in this meeting wiki page
   - The meeting folder do not need to be organized differently.

** Minutes of 20060717-am_1 (Info Model) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060718-am_1 (Info Model) - approved with no changes

   - Discussed deliverables of the Info Model design team. 
   - Agreed to stay with the current two document structure of a
     guidelines (Fred) and position/architecture (Ellen) document.
   - There are a number of actions on various groups (BES mainly, but
     also HPCP and JSDL) to provide input and these should be added
     to the expected material for GGF18.

   ACTION: Ellen to send an email to Chris Jordan with the information
           needed to add these two documents to the OGSA Roadmap

** Minutes of 20060717-am_2 (Data) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060717-pm (BES) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060718-am_2 (BES) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060718-am_bes2 (BES) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060717-pm-2 (HPCP) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060718-pm_1 (Naming) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060718-pm_3 (Ad hoc JSDL) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060719-am_1 (DMI) - approved with no changes
** Minutes of 20060719-am_2 (GGF18) - approved with no changes

** Postponed approval of remaining minutes 20060720-am-{1,2,3} and of
   the Joint Mgmt committee meeting.

  ACTION: Chris jordan to upload GFS and Roadmap minutes

* Information model 

  Discussion of Information Model postponed. As discussed(?) during
  the F2F a joint call with Data should be arranged.

  ACTION: Schedule a joint call with OGSA-Data to explain the
          Information model work before GGF18. 
          - This could be one agenda item on the joing EMS/Data call
            already being schedule.
          - Ellen is unavailable from Aug 18 to Sep 4.
