OGSA Teleconference - 22 January 2007
=====================================

* Participants

  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Paul Strong (eBay)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM) [from Glossary onwards]
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Bahareh Rahmanzadeh
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* January 18 minutes approved with no changes

* OGF19 and F2F update

** Zoomerang for March F2F
   - Hiro has launched a zoomerang and received 10 replies so far.

** OGF19 sessions
   - Session owners reminded to update the wiki page with the agenda.
   - (OGSA/EGA Reference Model sessions discussed below)

* Action Item review

  [Only actions with updates are listed]

  - AI-0118d: Hiro has asked Joel. Closed.
  - AI-0118g: Zoomerang launched.  Closed.
  - AI-0118h: Michel sent out email. Closed.

* EGA reference model discussion 

  There are two sessions planned. One is the OGSA & Reference model
  discussion (4-5:30pm, Monday) and the second is the Reference Model
  WG's charter BOF (6-7:30pm, Thursday).
  - The OGSA session is intended to be more technical and to talk
    about the relationship between OGSA and the Reference model
  - The BOF will bring together interested people and try to form a
    WG.
    - Paul is inviting end users. He does not expect too many users to
      come this time but is hoping to get more to join the WG after it
      is formed.
    - There has not been a lot of discussion on who the proposed WG
      chairs should be.  It will be part of the BOF discussion. (Paul
      Strong and Chris Kantarjiev were mentioned as possible
      candidates.)
    - How many EGA members are expected to attend? Probably not many
      this time. It depends on who is coming to OGF19.

   Hiro suggested that a possible output of this work is an
   (informational) document describing the joint OGSA/Reference model
   work. The OGSA-WG design team could start it and hand it over to
   the proposed group.

   AI-0122a: Hiro and Paul will do strawman of the joint
             OGSA/Reference Model document by OGF19

   AI-0122b: Paul will update the agenda of the Reference model BOF
             session. (Hiro will send Paul a pointer on how to do this
             update.)

* OGSA Glossary discussion 

  Discussed and made minor modifications to the definitions of SLA and
  SLO. In particular added 'service' to the definition of SLO.

  Agreed that, as discussed in the past, not all EGA terms will be
  included in the Glossary 1.x. It depends on which terms are actually
  used in the OGSA Architecture 1.5 document---the Glossary is a
  companion document.

  Discussed the Provisioning and Deployment definitions and how far
  the proposed text for each should be converged. Also whether the two
  terms should remain or whether one should be removed.  Paul pointed
  out that provisioning has fairly well understood meaning in certain
  fields (e.g., telecom) and should not be redefined in a narrower
  sense. Andreas said that the EMS definitions for Provisioning and
  Deployment from the Scenarios document were working definitions
  capturing the distinctions that people were comfortable making in
  the context of the Scenarios.

  For Provisioning, agreed to go with a main definition that is
  abstract and high-level and then provide specific examples pointing
  to the various ways that people use the term, for example, in the
  Reference Model or EMS.

   AI-0122c: Jem will check the usage of the term deployment in the
             OGSA Arch 1.5 document and propose whether to keep the
             term or delete it.

   AI-0122d: Jem will draft proposed text for the
             Provisioning/deployment terms. (Depending on outcome of
             AI-0122c)


* OGSA information/data modeling discussion

  Hiro has sent Ellen some comments on the Container Modeling
  document. Any additional comments on this document should be
  submitted by end of business Tuesday (01/23) to Ellen or the list;
  or upload to the document tracker.

  Ellen is planning to have a final draft in place before the Thursday
  call. 

   AI-0122e: Andreas will create tracker for the Container Modeling
             document [Done]
   AI-0122f: Hiro will post known issues to the tracker. [Done]
   AI-0122g: Ellen will ask for comments from specific people in the
             BES-WG (Andrew Grimshaw , Steven Newhouse, Chris Smith,
             etc.)
