OGSA Teleconference ? 15 May 2008  - ISV HTC usage primer
=========================================================

* Participants
  Michel Drescher
  Andreas Savva
  Donal Fellows
  Steven Newhouse
  Narfi Stefansson
  Andrew Grimshaw (at 20 minutes mark)
  Hiro Kishimoto (note taker)

* Summary of New Actions
ACTION ITEM: Andreas will provide a paragraph on JSDL-SPMD

* Minutes 8th May approved with no changes

AI: no items to review.

Andreas asks if we need to re-schedule this Mondayfs ghigh level API call.h
Hiro answers it is old name of gISV HTC usage primerh and is covered by this call.
We donft need to re-schedule.

Steven walks through his version 0.2 of the primer document.

Steven copy paragraphs from Andrewfs primer.
- ACTION ITEM: Andreas will provide a paragraph on JSDL-SPMD
- ACTION ITEM: Steven will add a file transfer protocol with sending mails to RNS, DMI folks.
- ACTION ITEM: Andreas will provide a paragraph on JSDL-parameter sweep.

Donal asks if there are any low level file transfer protocols, e.g. grid ftp?
Steven wants to add some of these.

ACTION ITEM: Steven will add a file transfer protocol with sending mails to RNS, DMI folks.

Andreas asks if Steven needs JSDL parameter sweep description as well?
Steven answered he needs it.
ACTION ITEM: Andreas will provide a paragraph on JSDL-parameter sweep.

Andrew asks if section 3.3 is special case with file staging?
Steven answered yes. It is file staging from client PC.

Steven renames grealization profileh to gimplementation architectureh and will add useful notes afterward.

Narfi points out gstorageh and gstorage serverh are very different things for some folks. Section 4.2 should be gexternal storageh instead of gexternal storage server.h Steven fixes this.

Andrew wants to ask some of ISVs to buy-in this document. Does Mathworks interested in this?

Narfi says that this document is tremendous useful for implementation. For decision making, he needs platform vendors to buy-in. Andrew has a plan to coordinate their buy-ins. Andrew is creating a gspec adoption table.h Current problem is this table is not enough granularity. Andrew is working on it.

Steven made three sessions at OGF23.

Andrew wants to talk about API; what is the right level of APIs. DRMAA?
Andrew asks what the largest queuing system installation is. Steven answers several thousands as far as he knows.

Steven wants to drill down this usecase rather than to collect another usecases at OGF23.

Steven is unlikely to make a call next week. He will let Hiro and Andreas know if he wants to have another all on next week.

Meeting adjourned 50 minutes mark.

