OGSA Roadmap Editors Meeting

August 16, 2006

Attendees: Chris Jordan, Dona Dickinson, Mike Behrens

1. Preliminary business
    Minutes of August 2 call approved

2. Review of changes to section 1 by Chris Jordan, addition of WS-standards on
	Chris presented first revised draft of roadmap 1.1 document to OGSA-WG on Monday
	No major issues from OGSA-WG or Roadmap editors group
	Changes accepted for inclusion in future drafts.
	
	Mike to try and get some materials in by saturday. If he is not able to find the time, we will have to
	come up with a "plan b", as Mike's work schedule will be quite heavy after this week.

3. Report from Dona on document status updates received

Dona has received responses from Jem Treadwell, Mary Thompson, Michelle Drescher, Mike Behrens. 
Dave Berry out-of-town, will respond shortly.

Dona has the action to make sure the wiki page reflects both new documents and groups that have responded
	by saying "there is no update"

4. Discussion of use of Wiki page for textual document description drafts, discussion of maintenance of
	textual document description responsibilities

Chris action item to fill out the empty link in the current wiki page, start adding material for each of the 
	major documents being tracked in the Roadmap.

5. Revisitation of the question of how to deal with published documents (appendix or document body?)

Wait for Hiro for further discussion on this

6. Review of schedule for Roadmap release, cut-off dates for status updates

Current schedule, as agreed on the call today:

September 1 cut-off document status updates, GGF18 review and commends, October 1 revised draft based on GGF18 comments, November public draft, final publication approximately beginning of 2007?

The next OGSA Roadmap editors meeting will be August 30, at which time we will be making a final check 
	to make sure we have status on all documents referenced in the Roadmap v1.1 before the September 1 deadline.

