OGSA WSRF BP Interop Telecon
Minutes, 13 March 2008

Attendees
---------
	Vivian
	Mark (Minutes)
	Hiro
	Andreas
	Shiraz
	Abdelsem
	Rachana
	Stephen McGough

* Minute Approval
* Action Item Review
	- Complete Interop by 22 Jan 08
		-- Was completed (maybe not by that date, but completely none the less).
* Globus Team Status
	- Figuring out one or two things
		-- Release of Globus coming up.  Should this be delayed for a few weeks
		   to support interop, or should interop wait until after release.
* Proposal for fixing the specification
	- Two solutions proposed to the QName resource properties.
		-- Solution 1
			<ns1:prop>
				ns2:value
			</ns1:prop>
			<ns1:prop>
				ns2:value
			</ns1:prop>
		-- Solution 2
			<ns1:props>
				<ns1:prop>
					ns2:value
				</ns1:prop>
				<ns1:prop>
					ns2:value
				</ns1:prop>
			</ns1:props>
	- Andreas to send proposal to the original WSRF BP authors
* Have another call in like two weeks?
	- 3 April 2008?
