Minutes of the Data Design team telcon, June 30th 2004.

1) Early discussion

Roll Call:
  Dave Berry, NeSC (Chair)
  Mario Antonioletti, EPCC (Note taker)
  Andrew Grimshaw, University of Virginia
  Allen Luniewski, IBM
  Susan Malaika, IBM
  Simon Laws, IBM

Agenda Bashing:

Dave said that the data section of the OGSA v1.0 document will be reviewed in the main OGSA-WG telcon later today.  He had comments from Hiro and Jem.  In particular, Dave would appreciated further comments about the "Supply and Demand Metamodel" section.  Would like someone to review it?


2) Arrangements for the summer FTF
	- Date: 15/16 July, London

Andrew, Mario, Dave and Allen confirmed they will attend.  Andrew said that Mark Morgan will also attend from the University of Virginia.

Andrew asked whether anyone will hire a car and would be able to offer lifts between the hotel and venue.  Dave will e-mail the participants.


3) Work before the FTF

Dave reported that Simon Laws is working on a perspective of existing data services from the DAIS point of view.

Andrew will write a presentation about his ideas for the architecture. 

Allen offerred to present thoughts about the principles that the architecture needs to meet.  Dave thought that this was largely covered by the "Properties" discussions of the previous two telcons -- he gave a brief recap and suggested that perhaps this could be reviewed in a telcon before the FTF.

Susan will give a short presentation about the work of the Info-D group.  She also offerred to present the data area "gap analysis" (more properly called the "GGF Data Area Structure and Function Analysis Document".  We decided to cover the "gap analysis" in a telcon before the FTF and to schedule the Info-D presentation for the FTF.


4) Agenda for the FTF

We agreed that the aim of the FTF will be to produce a framework so that we can then work on individual sections in working groups and in future telcons.  It is important to spend as much time as possible at the FTF actually writing.

We agreed to have an "aggressive" goal for the first day so that we can "drill down" on issues and/or subsections on the second day.  We need to identify the component sections as early as possible but not so early as to pre-empt the design of the overall architecture.

We decided to begin with short presentations about possible directions.  These should be reviewed against the use cases as we go.  Then we will identify commonalities and/or contradictions and abstract these into a common architecture.  Then we will break out into small groups to discuss areas of contention or to further develop sections of the architecture.

We agreed that the second day should end with a discussion about the way ahead, including which sections might be taken forward by other working groups.

We agreed that the main pre-reading material consists of the current version of the OGSA v1.0 document and of our use cases.  Dave will circulate pointers.

6) Wrap up
DONM: July 7th, usual time.









 




