OGSA Teleconference Minutes - 17 April 2006
===========================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of new actions

  Follow up action on Security: Jay will ask Frank to
    summarize in a 1-2 pages what work exists and can be the base of
    new specifications. (This summary will be then reviewed by the
    group and decide whether that is the way to go.)

  ACTION: Andrew will followup with Dave Berry to produce the data
          slides.

  ACTION: Hiro to talk with Steve Crumb and arrange to send out the
          announcement immediately.


* April 10 minutes approved no changes

* OGSA interim meeting 14 minutes
  - Day 1 minutes approved with no changes
  - Day 2 (am, pm) approved with no changes
  - Day 3 (am, pm) approved with no changes
  - Day 4 approved with no changes

  Follow up action on Security: Jay will ask Frank to
    summarize in a 1-2 pages what work exists and can be the base of
    new specifications. (This summary will be then reviewed by the
    group and decide whether that is the way to go.)

* Review of actions

  From April 10 telecon
  - Hiro: to ask Marvin if we can add webcast dry run to April 17
    call.
    - The HPC profile discussion was scheduled for April 20.

  From April 5 pm F2F meeting
  - Webcast Participants: send bios to Jem.
    - Hiro has sent his bio. 
    - Other participants are still been confirmed.
    - Participants should also send Jem their photos
  - Frank: to inform Jem about his availability for webcast on air
    - Frank can attend.
    - Also Jay and Dave Snelling can also probably attend.
    - No response yet from Tom.
    - Dave Berry cannot attend.

  ACTION: Andrew will followup with Dave Berry to produce the data
          slides.

  Other
  - Tom: to finalize OGSA WSRF BP 1.0 doc and make a final
    call.
    - Still pending.

* Webcast slides review

  - Polls: Only one question is allowed per poll and the polls can
    only be done inline. A short time is provided to reply to the
    poll and the webcast continues after that.
    - An alternative is to do a survery afterwards using a different
      tool (e.g., zoomerang)
  - Jem asked for a few just-in-case seed questions: Jay, Mike
    volunteered to provide some. Other people's input is also welcome.

  Reviewed and made minor revisions to the slides. The slide deck is
  almost complete but some slides need more work. (Person in charge is
  named on the slide.)

  Jem will upload the revised slide deck to gridforge.

  The dry run is scheduled for, Thursday, April 20, 6-8pm EST / Friday
  7-9am JST.

  It is now urgent to send out the webcast announcement within
  GGF. The announcement should be sent out on its own and not combined
  with other announcements. 

  ACTION: Hiro to talk with Steve Crumb and arrange to send out the
          announcement immediately.
