OGSA phone conference minutes
=============================

26 July 2007

Participants
============
Ellen Stokes, IBM
Andreas Savva, Fujitsu
Hiro Kishimoto, Fujitsu
Michel Drescher, Fujitsu
ZKert
Donal Fellows UoM
Laurence Field, CERN
Felix Ehm, CERN
Chris Kantarijev, Oracle

Notes: Michel Drescher


1) Early discussion
-------------------
- Minutes approval
  -- July 12 minutes approved without changes

  
2) coordinated/integrated plan for OGSA model, GLUE, and reference model
------------------------------------------------------------------------
- Ellen walks the group through an update of the last week(s) proceedings
- Ellen presents slides of the current OGF group relationships
- Draft docs should be available for OGF21
  - RM doc v2
  - GLUE schema doc
  - OGSA info model architecture
- Documents availoable for public comment by January 2008
  - again, RM v2, GLUE and OGSA doc(s)
- Ellen presents a timeline for planned document publication and interop sessions
- The planned combined GLUE&BES interop session at SC2007 has not been fixed and 
  talked about. 
- Hiro asks about coherence checks between RM, GLUE and OGSA documents. Ellen replies
  that good points would be the OGSA F2F and the OGF21 session(s).


3) feedback from DMTF alliance partner session
----------------------------------------------
- Ellen presents proceedings and resolutions of the last DMTF alliance partner sessions
- Donal asks whether the alliance name is sufficient, or whether additional information
  such as alliance website (e.g. http://www.ogf.org) would be necessary
  -- For the website and the Readme this would be good and alright, for the MOF file
     there are strict rules that forbid adding additional alliance information


4) OGF-21 & August F2F session planning
---------------------------------------
- current draft agenda for the August F2F info model session is as follows
  a) coordinated/integrated plan for OGSA info/data model, GLUE and RM, or
  b) feedback from DMTF alliance partner session, or
  c) work session to expose workgroup to current GLUE work and solicit input
- Sergio and Laurence are likely to not be able to call in to the August F2F at all,
  and Felix may be able to dial in. 
  -- This makes a coherence check session at the August F2F impossible.
- The group discusses back and forth possible topics for the August F2F
- Coherency checks will be postponed to OGF21
- Ellen will send an updated draft session agenda for August F2F
- The group starts discussing the draft OGF21 agenda for the info model work
  -- The current draft agenda is online in the OGSA Wiki
  -- As the GLUE WG already seem to request a joint session, it seem not 
     necessary for OGSA to request a joint WG session.

