=======================================================================
ACS Teleconference 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: Sep 28 20:15-21:40 EDT 2005 / Sep 29 9:15-10:40 JST, 2005
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Tom Studwell (IBM)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Sachiko Wada (ASCADE) - minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Review of the proposed contents for section "3.3 Relationship
    to other activities". 
   As for relationship to data area, it needs more research on their works. 
   We may drop the section in case.
  Action: Tom, Mike and Pete, to write their parts by next Wednesday.
 
* Review of the proposed draft for the chapter 5.
   The proposed draft was agreed to be merged though it needs more discussion
   in detail.
   Pete suggested that identifier generated by ACS is required in order to
   identify distributing pieces uniquely. The contentId attribute in the 
   Create/Update operation or in the AA instance property is just for the
   internal use in the single AA to corelate ACs with AAD elements. It is
   so named after SwA usage of content-id, The attribute name may be
   misleading and Keisuke will change the term.

* Review of the proposed draft for the chapter 4.
   Well accepted except that 4.3 should have the diagram depicting
   the example. Approved to be merged. Mike will choose an appropriate
   figure drafting the "3.3.2 OGSA EMS Design Team".

* Review of the schedule for draft writing 
  - "Chapter 6. Manageability"
   Just refer the WSDM MOWS. We may enrich this section in the future adding
   ACS specific manageability. 
  Action: Tom, to write the chapter by next Wednesday.

  - "Chapter 7. AAF Spec" 
   Being drafted by Sachiko and KF and will be posted to ML later this week.
  Action: Keisuke and Sachiko, to send the draft later this week.

  - "Chapter 9. Samples" and "Chapter 10. Schemas"
   Will be written after all the discussion is finished.

  Action: All, to read through the entire draft and send comment by GGF15.
  
* Updates, GGF15 sessions
   Tom will join the GGF15 sessions over the phone. Pete cannot be present.
   Keisuke will ask GGF administration for phone line. 

* Next meeting
   GGF15 on Oct 5.

