Minutes of the OGSA Data Design Team telcon, 9th March 2005

0) Open actions
- Mark to prepare document describing the draft ByteIO interface
- Mark & Dave to prepare slides for ByteIO BOF
- Dave to further revise the "straw man" document
- Simon to mail the list about different types of metadata: data resource vs. service.  (Or is this overtaken by the text in the straw man document?)


1) Early discussion

* Roll call
Mark Morgan
Ted Anderson
Dave Berry
Allen Luniewski

* Apologies
Andrew Grimshaw
Simon Laws
Mario Antonioletti
 

2) Update on outstanding actions

- Dave to write draft charter for ByteIO WG [Done]
- Mark to prepare document describing the draft ByteIO interface
- Simon to mail the list about different types of metadata: data
resource vs. service.
- Mark to mail around URL of notes from London meeting [Done]
- Dave to revise the current "straw man" document for next week [Done]
- Dave to prepare concrete proposal for initial data profile (ByteIO,
RNS, DAIS, GridFTP?) [Not done - Dave doesn't have time to take this on]


3) GGF13 main session preparation

Dave summarised his plans for the talk:
- Intro to the design team
- Short overview of the architecture, what we've done & which gaps remain
- Advertisements for the ByteIO BOF and Profile discussion

4) GGF13 BOF preparation

We agreed that we need a presentation of 2 or 3 use cases and a presentation of the proposed interface.  Then we should discuss the charter, whether to create a new WG or have the work done in an existing WG, and who wants to take part.
Presentation of GGF IP Rules
Pass around sign-up sheet

Background on OGSA ByteIO - Use Cases (Dave)
	Discussion

Proposed interface (Mark)
	Discussion

Charter discussion
        Seven questions
	Existing WG or new WG?
	Milestones
	Stakeholders, co-chairs

Scheduling of calls


5) GGF13 Profile preparation 

This really depends on who turns up.  It needs a champion to lead the work.

6) Architecture update (15 min)

Dave explained what he has changed in the latest version of the architecture straw man:

- I addressed lots of comments from Simon and Allen
- I added the comments that you sent me by e-mail
- I added a description of RNS by Mark (in the overview section and the main "Naming" section
- I removed references to "ExtendedIO"
- I revised the intro to try and better orient the reader.  This includes a brief discussion about people's different expectations of a data architecture (e.g. files vs databases)
 
7) Wrap up (5 min)
      AOB
	DONM (after GGF) - Mar 23rd?



