OGSA Teleconference - 20 April 2006
===================================

* Participants

  Susanne Balle (HP)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Mathias Dalheimer (Fraunhofer)
  Marty Humphrey (UVa)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Duane Merrill (UVa)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Stuart Schaefer (Softricity)
  Chris Smith (Platform)
  David Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Jun Tatemura (NEC)
  Marvin Theimer (Microsoft)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Glenn Wasson (UVa)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of new actions

  Action: Marvin will re-format and update the use case document

  Action: Marvin will initiate mail dicsussions on the extension
          topics

  Action: Marvin to send the draft charter to the OGSA list for
     comments. (Final review will be at the BOF in Tokyo.)

  Action: Dave B will send out the scenarios written by the data
           team.

  Action: Marvin and Dave B to send out and continue the Data
           scenario discussion on the list
  
* Review of existing actions

  [Only the actions that were updated are listed below.]

  - Andreas to update OGSA web site with new teleconference
    information. (DONE)

  - Jay/Jem/<your name here> to provide three examples of customers
    grid deployments/usages (without attribution/names) in two
    dimensions. (DONE)

  - Jun and Dejan will take this issue (with or without host name in
    JSDL document) back to the CDDLM-WG for discussion. (DONE)
  
    See CDDLM discussion in these minutes.

  - Webcast Participants: send bios and photo to Jem. 
    - Jem will follow up with the panelists.

  - Marvin to send e-mail that explains concerns on compliance suite
    by GGF & EGA.

    Missing context for this action. Hiro and Marvin will talk about
    it offline to clarify what needs to be done.

  - Tom: to finalize OGSA WSRF BP 1.0 doc and make a final call
    - Andreas volunteered to pick up this action and update the
      document.

* HPC profile discussion led by Marvin Theimer

** Close out the use cases.

   - No disagreements raised with base/common case
     classification. Therefore no major changes are required.
   - Document still needs to be reformated (GGF template) and also
     revised according to the April F2F discussion (e.g., add
     requirements).

   Action: Marvin will re-format and update the use case document

** Start discussing extension mechanisms.

   Marvin kicked off the discussion with a description of the 4
   different types of extensions he envisages:
   - WSDL extension: adding additional wsdl operations to a
     spec. (e.g., extending the BES specification to include a migrate
     operation.)
   - State Diagram extension--- See email by Chris Smith to the
     Saga-WG
       http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/saga-rg/2006/02/msg00107.html
   - Extending the set of understood descriptions (Infoset extension)
     E.g., extending resource descriptions in JSDL to support new
     resource types. (comment: how it relates to CIM)
   - Factoring into composable micro-specs (for protocol composition
     and extension)

  Dave S noted that things can become very complicated since the
  various specs may also define optional features, e.g., optional
  elements in resource descriptions. Also we have to be sensitive to
  what each spec thinks is the proper way to extend it.  (One example
  is JSDL and its relation to scheduling attributes; or notification
  subscription and whether it should be part of a jsdl document, or
  provided by a new extended operation). There is always 'tension'
  when making choices where to place things.

  Action: Marvin will initiate mail dicsussions on the extension
          topics

** As part of that, discuss how the Snelling/Foster ESI design might
   fit into things.

   Technical discussion was postponed.  It was proposed that instead
   of having a separate discussion to join the discussion already
   started in the BES-WG. The ESI authors also plan to do all their
   discussions in the BES-WG.

   It was agreed that all people participating in the HPC profile
   discussion should be on the following lists:
   - OGSA, OGSA-BES, JSDL and (optionally) SAGA-WG

** Review WG charter draft

   The draft charter was sent to Hiro and to Marty Humphrey (proposed
   co-chair) for comments.  Some changes have already been proposed.

   Discussed some parts of the charter:
   - WG might choose to do simple specs, if it identifies things that
     are needed.
   - Should it be in the Compute or Architecture area? Agreed that
     Compute is better.

   - Planning two documents
     - Use case: first draft (Apr), submission (Jul), publication (Sep)
     - Profile:  first draft (aug), submission (Nov), publication (Mar)

     - It is important to converge on a (draft) spec by August.

   - Marvin expects that there will be some prototype implementations
     in autumn (accepting the risk of changes from first draft)
   - There will also probably be an interop exercise in November.

   - Marvin is trying to get as many existing groups (globus, condor,
     altair, platform, ...) as possible to join the effort. But it is
     not a prerequisite that every possible stakeholder in this area
     agrees to participate in this effort.

  - Use case document: Susanne volunteered to provide a section on an
    open source scheduler project. [missed name]

   Action: Marvin to send the draft charter to the OGSA list for
           comments. (Final review will be at the BOF in Tokyo.)

** Data services relation

   Dave Berry described the work the OGSA Data WG is doing in
   developing data scenarios (e.g., pipelining, and parameter sweep.)
   The Data team would like some input from EMS on how to do the job
   submission; and also what should the relation of their work to HPC
   profile be.
   - Discussing the parameter sweep scenario, Marvin agreed that there
     are different ways of doing it: by a higher level service or by
     extended job (jsdl) descriptions. It is not clear yet which way
     it is better. But initially a higher level service that submits
     individual, simple, jsdl documents seems better than coming up
     with complex job descriptions including definition of
     dependencies. (This might be a later step.)
   - Dave B also said that it may be time to start trying to thinking
     about what to do with workflow 

   Should the data team contribute these scenarios to the HPC Profile
   work?
   - Marvin welcomes all feedback to the HPC Profile.

   Action: Dave B will send out the scenarios written by the data
           team.

   Action: Marvin and Dave B to send out and continue the Data
           scenario discussion on the list

* CDDLM joint discussion

  Discussed 'lazy' issue: 
  - It is up to the implementation of the (deployment) service what to
    do with properties, etc, marked 'lazy'. The implementation may
    choose to ignore any added values for properties marked as lazy.
  - It was clarified that a user may redefine the value of lazy to
    false and therefore pass in desired value.

* Webcast update

  The webcast was announced and within the first day 85 people
  registered. This is half the capacity so places are filling in fast.
  
  Some members mentioned they had problems trying to use the HP
  webcase site from Macs (no activex).

  - Dave S is out of office on the webcast day and probably cannot
    make it.
  - It has not been possible to contact Tom Maguire.

  At the moment the panel looks likely to be made by Andrew Grimshaw,
  Jem Treadwell, Hiro Kishimoto, Chris Jordan, Jay Unger. 
