OGSA Teleconference - 25 May 2006
=================================

* Participants

  Donal Fellows (UoM)
  Michel Drescher (Fujitsu)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Apologies: Hiro Kishimoto
  
  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  ACTION: The chairs to send out what registration is needed to
          enter ANL for the F2F.
  ACTION: Andreas to ask CDDLM (actually Jun, Hiro) for the
          corresponding CDL documents
  ACTION: Andreas will talk with the ACS chair and draw up a first
          draft of interaction for review.
  ACTION: Donal to refine step 1 and 2 to show the RSS interaction
  ACTION: Donal to change the source/target urls in the JSDL example
          to use remote resources.
  
* Telecon minutes (May 22): approved with no changes

* Action Items: No updates

* OGSA-WG Summer F2F meeting

  Discussed and confirmed the choice of location (Chicago, ANL) and
  dates (July 17-20).
  - Expecting participation of Globus and Univa representatives.
  - Steven Newhouse cannot attend in person (Grid School). EMS
    discussion is set for Tuesday morning, which is good as it allows
    him to dial in.
  - DMTF alliance meeting: Ellen has arranged for the GGF meetings to
    be on Thursday so she can participate in the F2F until Wednesday.

  - Everyone intending to participate should send passport details to
    ANL. US citizens are better off sending their details also as it
    speeds the entry process.

  ACTION: The chairs to send out what registration is needed to enter
          ANL for the F2F.
    
  - Agenda corrections:
    - "GGF18 planning" on Thursday

* EMS scenario discussion

  - Andreas sent out updated draft before the call. 

  - Where do  licenses fit in this scenario? 
    - Scenario is intended to work out relationship between JSDL and
      CDL, so licences are not a part of it. (Could deal with them in
      a number of different ways: reserve/allocate before installing
      the software. Floating licenses might mean no delay at
      installation but cause a wait at runtime)
  - BLAST may not be appropriate example
    - The text is already changed to empasize that BLAST is an
      example. Better suggestions welcome.
  - There are 3 empty sections where the CDL should go. It is not
    necessary to have the entire component definitions, just the top
    level document.
  - ACS interaction should be added (separate scenario). Some points
    where it should fit in have been highlighted.

  The plan is to have a first draft of the entire scenarios document
  (up to and including cddlm interaction) by the July F2F and review
  it with the intention of submitting to GGF as an informational
  document.

  ACTION: Andreas to ask CDDLM (actually Jun, Hiro) for the
          corresponding CDL documents
  ACTION: Andreas will talk with the ACS chair and draw up a first
          draft of interaction for review.
  ACTION: Donal to refine step 1 and 2 to show the RSS interaction
  ACTION: Donal to change the source/target urls in the JSDL example
          to use remote resources.

* OGSA document schedule review

  Deferred since no proposal was sent to the list.

