Session place: OGF22, Cambridge, USA, Feb 27th, 2008, 9.00 pm-10.30pm
Session name: Remote Instrumentation Services in Grid Environment - use cases
Session leader: Marcin Plociennik <marcinp@man.poznan.pl>, PSNC, Poland

1. Agenda:

  a) "Session introduction, goals & who we are" - Marcin Plociennik
link:
https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/docman/do/downloadDocument/projects.risge-rg/docman.root.meeting_materials.ogf22/doc15141
https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/docman/do/downloadDocument/projects.risge-rg/docman.root.meeting_materials.ogf22/doc15123

Please note: There is a list of projects involved in group with contact persons, as well as short description of
each project/research and relation with group activities. Please have a look at:
https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/docman/do/listDocuments/projects.risge-rg/docman.root.involved_projects
There are descriptions coming from following projects:
GRIDCC, RINGRID, int.eu.grid, g-Eclipse, AUGERACCESS, VLab, Edutain@Grid,
Integrated e-Infrastructure for Facilities, An Open Network for Robotic Telescopes,
NORIA Network for Ocean Research, Interaction and Application,
Observatory Middleware Framework,
SENSORS: Ocean Observing Network Infrastructure

  b) "The EGEE Infrastructure and Remote Instruments" - Erwin Laure
link: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/docman/do/downloadDocument/projects.risge-rg/docman.root.meeting_materials.ogf22/doc15142

After presentation there was short discussion about how some of the requirements coming from Remote Instrumentation related projects
could be taken into consideration by EGEE infrastructure

  c) The discussion on the RISGE use cases document structure - Costas Kotsokalis
link:
https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/docman/do/downloadDocument/projects.risge-rg/docman.root.meeting_materials.ogf22/doc15124

2. Formal announcements:

I'm glad to announce that
- Duane Edgington representing MBARI got final endorsement from his institution to be co-chair of our group.
- During the meeting Costas Kotsokalis representing GRNET agreed to become a secretary

There was a RISGE-RG presentation during the session
"Grid Visualization and Steering: Status and collaboration with RISGE-RG (BoF) "
We have discussed the commonalties and cooperation possibilities between our groups.
Summary of this discussions will be sent in next mail.

3. Next meeting:
Please don't forget about next meeting that will take place in conjunction with INGRID 2008, 9-11 .04.

About INGRID 2008
"Workshop focuses on all aspects related to the effective exploitation of remote instrumentation on the Grid. These include middleware architecture, high-speed networking in support of Grid applications, wireless Grid for acquisition devices and sensor networks, Quality of Service (QoS) provisioning for real-time control, measurement instrumentation and methodology."

Invited sessions:


- Managing Interactivity in Grid Applications
- Remote Instrumentation Services in Grid Environment - RISGE
- The European Grid Initiative
- e-VLBI
- Metrology Issues in Distributed Measurement Systems
- Networking for Distributed Application Environments: Macro- and Nano-Scale

link:
http://www.ingrid08.cnit.it/
early registration for conference: till March 14 ,2008


4. To be done till next meeting:

a) I would like to kindly remind you about providing the short description of the projects that were initially interested in the work of the group
(just to remind, we are missing descriptions from CIMA, BalticGrid, EGEE, DORII, MMRA, CYCLOPS, DEGREE, NICTA Open SensorWeb, ARCHER)

b) Please send your comments questions or remarks, if any to the proposed structure of use cases

c) If there will be no comments about the structure of the use case document, we should start preparing the
first use cases, that could be discussed during next meeting in more details.

5. This summary as well as the presentations from the meeting are available on our group webspace:
https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/docman/do/listDocuments/projects.risge-rg/docman.root.meeting_materials.ogf22
https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/docman/do/listDocuments/projects.risge-rg/docman.root.meeting_minutes

