OGSA Teleconference - 17 July 2005
==================================

* Participants

  Pete Ziu (Northrop Grumman)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Osamu Tatebe (AIST)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Manuel Pereira (IBM)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  
* Minutes approval

  Minutes approved with minor changes. Proposed changes described in
  http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2005/07/msg00056.html

* August F2F updates

  - Andrew is leaving Thursday
    - Proposal to start Naming early and finish at 11am on Thursday;
      or move the Naming session to Wednesday
    - Agreed to move Naming session to Wednesday
  - Hiro and Mark have to leave before Friday noon
    - Agreed to start Friday early and if possible finish the session
      by 11am; continue without them, if necessary.

  - ByteIO moved to Tuesday
  
  - Proposal to allocate time during the F2F for resource modelling
    - Hiro to allocate three hours on Wednesday afternoon in the OGSA
      session.

  - WSDM conflict update: Heather Kreger has agreed to move the WSDM
    meeting to another week.

  - Hiro has contacted Allen L.: Prefers Data session later in the
    week.

  - Data moved to Thursday
    - Dave B wants to have a discussion on data staging as a separate
      job rather than as part of a single job. A number of JSDL-WG
      members will be at the F2F so having a discussion as part of the
      Data session is a possibility.

* WSRF BP 1.0 review

  - Tom has uploaded v27 on gridforge

   Action: Tom continues to have the pen and will upload a new draft
           after the call.

** Canonizalization proposal
    - There are several (three) canonicalization proposals but many do
      not define a serialization. The proposed addition (below) does.
    - l.336-340 modified to use the OASIS specification "Schema
      Centric XML Canonicalization."
      - Also softened language (MUST to SHOULD) because it is not
        clear what the implementation status of this specification is.
    - This specification is a 'Committee Specification.' In other
      words, the specification has been approved by the TC as a CD,
      submitted to public comment (and only minor changes were
      required to address comments). But it has not gone through a
      final approval vote. In terms of the Profile Definition
      classification it is at least "Evolving Institutional."

    Action: Tom will check to see the implementation status. (Contact
            the IBM co-author of this proposal.)
    Action: Takuya will review this addition. He will also check the
            implementation status (within NEC).
    
    Agreed to delete comments against this proposal.

** Security

   Discussed security issues raised on the list.

   Action: Tom to arrange a separate teleconf to discuss the security
           issues below. Invite Marty, Dave S, Mark McKeown, Frank,
           Takuya.
    
*** Signed endpoint references

   Issue raised on the list by Mark McKeown
   http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2005/07/msg00049.html

   - Presumably transport level security would not require this.
   - For Message level security, need to define what to sign; probably
     everything including reference properties.

   Action: Takuya will follow up with Frank on whether it should be
           mandated. 

*** Mandating transport or message security

   The profile as it stand does not allow non-encrypted messages or
   channels.

   There are cases when one would not want either, e.g., large data
   transfers that may cause performance degradation. Also depending on
   the environment it might be acceptable to not encrypt (e.g.,
   operating within enterprise (behind firewall)).

   (If corruption is the issue then signatures and not encryption is
   appropriate.)

   Consensus on softening the requirement: 
   - Change l.466 'requires' to 'recommends'
   - And also change transport level compliance statements R0811-14
     from MUST to SHOULD.
          
*** Mutual authentication

   - Discussed and agreed on last week.
   - The non-normative text is out of sync with the normative text.
     Agreed to change l.489 to 'recommended.'

   Action: Takuya to reply to Marty's email.

*** User name/password authentication

    There is no statement about name/password authentication in the
    WSRF BP. It is allowed by the WS-I Security BP (token
    authentication).

    l.491 is problematical, however. The phrasing explicitly allows
    only x.509. But this is a non-normative statement and no normative
    statements back this up.
   
    Action: Takuya will look into this issue and report back to the
            group.

* Resource modelling discussion

  [Timeboxed to 15 minutes.]

  The BES has put resource modelling out of scope. But it looks more
  and more that OGSA should face this issue sooner rather than
  later. And avoid or minimize rework later on

  There was a presentation about CIM/JSDL mapping at GGF14. This is a
  good starting point and OGSA-WG should discuss whether CIM is the
  solution for OGSA. The main questions are
   - what is a reasonable model for OGSA (for Grid); and
   - is CIM it

  Are there other candidates besides CIM? 
  - It was noted that WSDM also seems to be turning towards CIM.
  - GLUE is an option but there is work to provide a CIM mapping.
  
  The rendering and semantics distinction/definition is discussed in
  GFD-I.45. Available at http://www.ggf.org/documents/GFD.45.pdf

  There is also the WS-CIM work. The group should check how far that
  work satisfies OGSA requirements.
   
  Initially a limited experiment might be in order. For example apply
  CIM to BES/JSDL. But BES-WG cannot take this work on, and RSS-WG
  also is moving to put it out of scope.

  One related issue is how to 'sell' CIM to the wider Grid
  community. It was proposed to put together a concrete proposal in a
  document format so as to have something concrete to discuss by the
  F2F.

  The RM call agenda (Tuesday) is set to discuss this topic.

  And continue this discussion on another OGSA call (possibly next
  Monday).

* RNS specification review

  Draft:
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/gfs-wg/document/RNS-Proposed_Final_Draft-v1.7/en/7

  Manuel gave an overview of the specification. The referenced draft
  is being prepared for submission. 
  - Some grid file system parts (e.g. one of the appendices) will be
    removed for final submission.
  - Also to remove sentence in Sec.1.2.1 about manipulation via
    WSRF. It gives the wrong impression.
  
  Andrew had a number of comments and he will post them on the OGSA
  and GFS lists.

  There are two ways to proceed: 
  - GFS submits the document to GGF Editor soon and there is followup
    discussion as part of the public comment period; or
  - GFS discusses with OGSA, adjusts the RNS specification if
    necessary and then submits.
 
  Action: Manuel will take this proposal back to the GFS group and
          will let OGSA know in a subsequent email.

* Next call (Wednesday)

  - Next steps discussion
  - Teleconf schedule
  - WSRF BP 1.0 review