OGSA Teleconference - 19 April 2007 - Workflow usecases
=======================================================

* Participants

  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Donal Fellows (UoM)
  ZackK

  Apologies: Michel Drescher, Steve McGough

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* No quorum but agreed to discuss progress and how to move forward

* Chris K has been collecting material from the list relating to
  workflow. In particular anything that looks like a use case.

* Donal F and Andrew G submitted their use cases. Essentially it is
  the description part of the proposed template. Hopefully they will
  fill in the rest.

* Chris K has a list of people to 'remind' for use cases

* The key question is whether there is enough concrete interest
  (activity) for generating requirements. It does not look so at the
  moment.

* Is the BPEL work which has been implemented already sufficient?

** Donal's concern is that BPEL focuses on messages rather than
  activities.

** Chris K has uploaded a BPEL paper. People should read it.

** It might be possible to get the author (Wolfgang ?)  or one of his
  student to talk about the work, maybe at OGF20. Chris K will look
  into it.
