======================================================================
ACS Teleconference 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: March 30 19:00-20:30 EST 2005 / March 31 9:00-10:30 JST, 2005
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Sachiko Wada (ASCADE) - minutes
Apologies:
  Thomas Studwell (IBM)
------------------------------------------------------------------------

* Topics

a) the new requirements from NAREGI PSE
 + Keisuke summarized some new requirements for ACS spec are mentioned in the 
   GGF13 presentation at ACS #1 session, which include: 
   - including source code to be compiled for each target platform at
     or prior to the deployment of the application.
   - storing compiled binaries for target platforms in the repository.
   - storing (caching) the input and output data pairs through the lifecycle
     of the multiple executions of the application.
 + Agreed that we need to discuss about the above more in detail. Below are 
   some additional issues raised in the discussion.
   - If source code is dynamically compiled at runtime, who is responsible
     for assuring the compiler in place?
   - Since the data used in scientific calculation tend to be significantly
     large, repositories for dynamic data may be better if implemented 
     separately from the ACS repository.
 + Actions
   - Study the presentation and point out more questions/observations.

b) relationship to the deployment API and component model being discussed in
    the CDDLM-WG.
 + Keisuke reported that the CDDLM team is positive about seeking for 
   collaboration with ACS. They were preparing three specifications to be 
   completed and one of them was the deployment API, whose 'addFile' 
   interface looks to be a candidate contact point with ACS, for example, 
   "register" interface of ARI.
   We need to discuss about where the ACS interfaces should stand in the 
   CDDLM's lifecycle model.
 + Agreed that we also seek for the collaboration with the CDDLM-WG.
   The ACS repository will make it easy to enable versioning and repeatable
   deployment. We need to learn their specs.
 + Actions
   - Study their specification and point out some questions/observations.

c) collaboration with IUDD standardization group
 + Generic archive standard will be output from IUDD standardization and 
   we agreed that grid specific archive format (AAF) will use IUDD as a 
   framework. We need to discuss differences in requirements between 
   IUDD(for generic use) and AAF(grid specific) and the way to utilize IUDD 
   spec so that it is efficient for grid use.
 + Actions
   - Make clear our (grid) requirements for IUDD and discuss with IUDD team.

d) recruiting involvement from the European communities.
 + Keisuke reminded us that one of the comments I got after the sessions is 
   that we should seek for the participants from European Grid communities 
   since they share a lot with our usecase and scope. We need a research on 
   this possibility. UniGrid, EGEE, omii, and more...
 + We need researches on their activity to examine if there exists any 
   possibility of collaboration or integration with our activity. It is 
   expected to promote our activity. However, since we should first establish 
   collaboration with NAREGI, CDDLM and SI.
 + Actions
   - Keep watching other activities which might have a potential relationship 
    to ACS
    

* Roadmap
a) Working draft
 We need to move forward toward writing a work group draft, which is planned 
 to be presented at GGF14 in the charter .

b) implementation
 The Business Grid and NAREGI projects are expected to be implementation of 
 ACS spec. To realize this, we should write up our specification quickly.
 On the other hand, since their products are rather large scale, so we may 
 seek for some more concise implementations to refine our concept.

* F2F meeting plan
 Not decided, but one possible candidate is:
   Date:  2nd week of May
   Place: Washington, DC
 Waiting for the response from Tom and other participants.

* Next call
 Date(Pending):  Apr 20 Wed 20:00 EST/Apr 21 Thu 10:00 JST 
 # U.S. Daylight Saving time has started Apr 3.
