=======================================================================
ACS Teleconference 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: Dec 14 19:10-20:00 EST 2005 / Dec 15 9:10-10:00 JST 2005
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Tom Studwell (IBM)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Sachiko Wada (ASCADE) - minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* GGF16 session 
   Keisuke have requested two 90 min sessions, one for internal discussion and
   the other for the out-reach. The session for internal discussion may
   be canceled since the active members of WG except Keisuke and Sachiko
   expressed regrets; it will end up with just another regular weekly call:-)

* January and February OGSA F2F
   Mike will join the January meeting over phone to a couple of sessions 
   related to ACS and WS-Name if possible.
   Keisuke will join the February one, which will be held after GGF16.

* Updates and schedules
 + Open issues
  - Relationship with SDD
   Updates about SDD TC activity from Tom: 
    They have plan to have SDD version 1.0 specification approved as 
    Committee Draft in April. Alongside, existing IUDD spec may be reworked
    and submitted to SDD TC in Feburuary. 
   ACS next version:
    There is no specific time frame for ACS next version yet. It may depend on
    the SDD progress. Tom said that SDD TC may be able to bring their early 
    draft to ACS-WG in March so that we can make comments on whether and how 
    it meets ACS requirements.
  - Other
   Tom suggested that "Manageability Capability of ACS instance" should be
   added to the list of open issues.

 + OGSA EMS discussion
   This topic will be discussed in OGSA meetings other than ACS sessions.
   We need to catch up with their discussion and sort out our observation.

 + OGSA meeting
   Mike reported that he raised a new scenario at OGSA teleconf today 
   about grid resources whose network connectivity are not always assured, 
   such as mobile devices or lap tops. Details are reported in OGSA minutes.  

 + NAREGI
   Keisuke reported that he joined a meeting with NAREGI, which is not 
   only for PSE and ACS. He heard an interesting topic in terms of deployment
   there and will provide us some information at the next teleconf.

* Next meeting
   The next meeting will be arranged next year, maybe Jan 11 Wed.
   The precise date and time will be announced later.
