OGSA Teleconference - 12 October 2005
=====================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Steve McGough (IC)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Apologies: Fred Maciel, Ellen Stokes, Tom Maguire

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* No minutes ready for approval 

* Charter 

  Jem reviewed the Charter draft and made some minor comments. He will
  send the revised draft to Hiro.

* GGF15 and F2F evaluation

  The Outreach session only had 15 people attending. OGSA-WG should
  rethink this session. In the future rather than repeating the same
  "Overview and Status" presentation it might be better to have more
  technical presentations focusing on parts of the architecture. For
  example, an in-depth look at Data or EMS.

  Overall, GGF15 participant numbers where down. It also showed in the
  WG sessions. Some concerns were raised with the plan to have a
  combined Gridworld-Globusworld-GGF. In particular how to avoid
  conflicts between the technical sessions of Globusworld and GGF WG
  sessions.

  The F2F after GGF15 was productive. 

  Most of the materials have been uploaded. The minutes are still
  pending.

* Next F2F

  - The Data team is planning its own F2F at the begininng of the next
    OGSA F2F (Jan 2006).
  - Steven N needs to be back in the UK on Thursday. Hiro will
    schedule the EMS sessions early in the week.

* EMS discussion

  The plan is to merge the Roadmap draft from the F2F and the sequence
  diagrams together with the EMS architecture text from OGSA 1.0. The
  end result to be the EMS architecture document, one of the
  deliverables listed in the new charter.

  - Steven N will do a first draft.
  - Weekly EMS calls (allocate half of Wed call) 
  - Steven volunteered to update the draft scenario (3.2) by next
    Wednesday's call

* AOB

  Andreas to create trackers for Takuya's security profiles. (One for
  each profile.)
