OGSA Teleconference - 20 July 2005
==================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Pete Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

  Apologies: Tom Maguire

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes 

  July 18 minutes approved with minor modifications: date is wrong,
  and should be corrected to July 18.

* F2F Update

  - The Resource Management (RM) design team wants a slot during the
    F2F; preferably a full day.
    - They had a call, starting their discussion from the same point
      as the last OGSA call: the need for a document to make
      requirements concrete. The F2F seems to be the best time to
      start working out the contents of this document.
    - Andrea Westerinen will also be joining the OGSA F2F for this
      purpose. (She cannot make it before Wednesday, however)
    - Andrew is also needed for this effort. But he is leaving
      Thursday afternoon.
    - Schedule proposal is to use the OGSA session Wednesday afternoon
      and continue in the OGSA session Thursday morning.
    - Will look at BES, and EMS resource model (RSS will need
      something too).

  - EGA joint-session is also being planned for Wednesday afternoon.
    - Andrew is therefore double-booked.
    - Agreed to move the EGA session to Tuesday morning, either in
      parallel to or after ByteIO if it finishes early.
    - The EGA members may want to get involved on a specific
      issue. The RM work seems like a good candidate. In this meeting
      however it may be better to discuss procedural issues.
      - And start discussing what that common topic is. Suggest RM as
        a candidate. (And possibly ask them to join the RM work at a
        later point when it has more structure.)

  - Is the OGSA general session on Friday sufficient? Not sure.

  - Are ByteIO and Naming taking too much time on the schedule?
    (half-a-day each)
    - ByteIO: a couple of hours are probably enough (including spec
      review). No controversy so far.
    - Naming: there seems to be (tentative) consensus on the main
      issues. So a couple of hours might be enough. This excludes a
      discussion of RNS. If RNS is discussed then half-a-day in total
      may be needed.

  Action: Andrew to send an email to the EGA members and arrange the
          meeting for Tuesday morning.
  Action: Andreas to book an extra room for Tuesday morning

  - Marvin Theimer cannot join in person. Add to the list of people
    dialling in.

* Next Step discussion

  Based on Hiro's draft sent out before the call:
  http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2005/07/msg00064.html

  - OGSA-WG is already committed to the following activities:
    - OGSA 1.5 and Glossary 1.5
    - OGSA Roadmap 1.0
    - OGSA Profile definition (submitted; waiting to enter public
      comment)
    - WSRF BP 1.0 (working to complete; schedule has already
      slipped. Probably cannot publish before November.)

  - EMS area:
    - BES has already started and RSS is starting up.
    - CDDLM and ACS work has to be integrated (see next topic)

  - Provisioning
    - Priority is high; will be worked on at the next F2F in the joint
      session with CDDLM.

  - Basic EM Profile: revisit after GGF15

  - Job Manager Interface:
    - Perceived overlap with BES as well as work from other groups.
    - Not high priority; revisit later.

  - EMS architecture document
    - As a separate document it may take longer than August. [Need to
      identify what changes in OGSA 1.5 though.]

  - Grid Resource model
    - This is now high priority; agreement is to start working on this
      soon.
    
  - Resource virtualization: This seems more of a by-product of OGSA
    work. Probably do not need it as a separate topic.

  - Information services: Abdeslem has indicated he needs help with
    this topic. Need to follow up with Abdeslem. (Not sure if he can
    attend the F2F. Hiro to confirm.)

  - OGSA Authz 
    - They have submitted one document recently; it is probably going
      to public comment soon.
    - There is also another draft on using SAML and OGSI. It needs to
      be revised for WSRF.
    - They are trying to re-charter.
    - OGSA-WG would like to be more involved with this group. The
      target is to have the same level of interaction that OGSA-WG has
      with BES, RSS, etc. (Especially since this seems to be the only
      active security group and it carries the OGSA prefix.)
    - Therefore synchronizing with this group is high priority. The
      F2F may offer a good opportunity to do so. Maybe invite members
      of OGSA AuthZ to attend and have a discussion.
      - Some people are based in the Bay area. 
      - Negotiate a place on the agenda based on their availability.

  Action: Takuya has contact with this group (OGSA liaison) and will
          invite them to attend.

   - Agreed to add Basic Profile 2.0 to the list.

   - BP 1.0 interop
     - this is going to be a lot of work. and noone has taken this
       activity on yet. Volunteers needed.
     - If it will happen in public at GGF16 it should be done before
       in a smaller circle. So as to make sure it will not fail.
   
   Action: Andrew will ask Marty if he would like to lead this
           activity on.

   - Roadmap document update
     - OGSA-WG has committed to updating this document. So it should
       be moved to the first section.
     - It is low priority.

   - Use case cross-check: low priority. No volunteers.

   - December F2F: consider La Jolla as a location.

   - Hiro's schedule proposal:
     - Andrew has sent out comments on RNS specification. Some time
       for the RNS review should be allocated in July/August
     - Roadmap public comment period is until July 29.
       - There are very few comments. Are those enough?
       - It is an informational document and so the bar is lower than
         Recommendation track.
       - Is there a way to check how many people have downloaded it?
       - All should try to invite more comments from colleagues.

  [An updated version of the work items list, based on this review,
  was sent to the list:
  http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2005/07/msg00068.html]

* WSRF BP 1.0 review

  There has not been a separate security call or discussion yet. Also
  Takuya is still reviewing the WS-I Basic Security Profile (WS-I BSP)
  on the header signing issue. Other related issues are also still
  unresolved.

  Review based on draft 29:
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/draft-ggf-ogsa-wsrf-basic-profile/en/24 

  Did a page by page review until page 14 (l.493). Accepted all
  changes to that point with the following exceptions:

  - R0429: Takuya has comments on the Schema Centric Canonicalization
    specification. A summary follows:
    - The Schema Centric Canonicalication specification only covers
      serialization of nodesets. So there is still a need to define
      the schema for the content of reply messages when the return
      values that are strings, numbers, booleans. (XPath allows such
      return values.)
    - Even if selecting a fragment the whole document would be
      serialized; this might cause big performance problems with large
      documents, even if the returned fragment is small.

  Action: Takuya to send an email with his concerns on the Schema
          Centric Canonicalization to the list.

  - E0802: Is this extensibility point listed in WS-I BSP 1.0?
    - Takuya think it is. 

  Action: Hiro to re-check the WS-I BSP 1.0

  - A newer version of the WS-I BSP seems to be in the works.  But
    there is no time to change from using the currently used
    version. Might be able to do so during public comment.

  - l.493: 'only' issue is still unresolved. 
  
  Action: Takuya to propose new text to the list.

* Other business

  - Andrew will miss the next call (Monday) due to other commitments.
      

  
