OGSA EMS Teleconference - 8 November 2004
=========================================

* Participants

  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Hrabri Rajic (Intel)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* No quorum; agreed to discuss procedural issues.

* Any way to speed up the discussion? Ravi is thinking of starting a
  wider discussion on use cases to motivate the meta pattern used in
  version 1.0.

* Preparation for F2F: interactions between Data and EMS are a
  likely focus. So a common use case would be useful to motivate and
  focus the discussion---already have a common meta-pattern

* Often discussion tends to be too abstract. Consider finding a
  relatively controversial but concrete topic that people would be
  interested in to motivate and focus the discussion.

* As a way to get wider participation consider commenting on other
  groups' work and how the EMS team thinks it fits in EMS. One example
  is GSA-RG but also GRAAP-WG. Might be useful even if it is only at
  the requirements level.

* Map standards and how they relate to EMS. For example, take
  individual concepts and whether they fit together; identify
  gaps. How long would this take?

* Actions:

  Ravi to send agenda for next meeting early. Probable focus on
  preparation for F2F. Put minutes approval on agenda (consider
  re-using Hiro's agenda as template).

  Andreas to send tracker how-to to Ravi.

  Send open issues or discussion topics to Ravi.



