OGSA Teleconference May 17, 2004
================================

* Participants

  Jeffrin Von Reich (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Chris Smith (Platform)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)

* Early Discussion

** Teleconference minutes May 5: No comments, approved
** Interim minutes: No comments, approved

* GGF11 update

** GGF11 session plan update
   https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF11_session_plan/en/

   - EMS: Formely known as PE

   - Data: As DaveB is not attending GGF11, Andrew will be taking over
     that session.

   - Panel: Still not decided on topic
     - Jeffrin's idea is to talk about Grid progression (and he can
       talk about Grid to Utility Computing connection)
     
   Action: Anyone with ideas for the panel should contact Hiro
           as soon as possible.

   - Design I: 
     - DMTF UC-WG cross discussion: slot time looks ok but Jeffrin has
       not confirmed with UC people yet.

   - Design II:
     - OASIS WSDM cross discussion: Fred has not confirmed yet
     - WSDM is having a F2F the day after GGF11. They are also
       planning a cross session with CDDLM.
     - Fred planning to talk about WSDM (not at a very detailed level)
       in the CMM document

   - Design IV
     - Self management: 
       - Design team update by Jeffrin and Andreas. 
         - Initial stages. 
         - Teleconference planned for May 18.
       - 'Provisioning' term discussion
         - No definition agreed and
         - General understanding that it is difficult to reach
           consensus by GGF11.
     - Context: temporarily owned by the Self-management team
       (Jeffrin); Discuss during May 18 call and get back to Hiro.

  Action: Jem will send out some tentative (not too detailed)
          definition of provisioning for glossary discussion.

** The OGSA document status

   - Review of the schedule (section vs owner vs deadline)

   - Security may not be ready for review until June 2.
   - Self-management (text by May 21, review 24, is optimistic)
   - Infrastructure assumptions is probably not correctly placed as
     3.8.

   - Information Services
     - Draft of Information Services should be available soon and
       review on May 24.

   Action: Bill to review information service text before the general
           review if possible.
                
* OGSA glossary

   - Provisioning terms - provisioning, scheduling, deployment etc. -
     - Self-management team to review.  
   - Logging terms (Broker, Logging system) 
     - Bill will provide
   - QoS/QoX
     - Jay will provide 
   - Agreement 
     - Jem asked Jim Pruyne (GRAAP) to define
   - Trust
     - Frank will define 
   - GGF
     - OK (Is this really needed?)
   - Policy 
     - (Frank) Add "rule" to access control in the example.  
     - (DaveS) Use either "user" or "software component" in the
       example, not both.

   - Name 
     - Needs further discussion (Frank) 

   - Identity 
     - (Frank) Change reference from 'name' to 'attribute' as a more
       general concept to define identity
     - Needs further discussion 

   - Delete the following terms
     - Collision resolution 
     - Work
     - "uses OGSA-services"
     - Index (Ravi) 
     - Registration port type
     - Queuing service 
     - Indirection service data element 

* Resource Management Services review

   - Text review of Resource Management capability section text
     - 1.1.3: It does not sound correct to refer to these as
       'services' 
     - In general are we talking about services or interfaces?
       - Depends on viewpoint. (Make it clear.)

     - Capabilities vs Properties vs Requirements
       - A requirement drives the development of both functions and
         properties. Functions (capabilities) are visible in the
         interfaces while properties are those aspects of a service
         that are not visible. E.g., all forms of QoS.

     - WSDM should be mentioned directly (and there should be more
       text to describe WSDM here).

     - Fred to also review (PE/)EMS related text.
 
   Action: Fred to prepare another revision.

   - CMM document (more general perspective)
     - How close to completion does the CMM group think it is?
     - Planning to have the final version ready for GGF11

* OGSA document

  - Introduction
    - Change describe "current work" to 'any work known to be under
      way"

  - Jem to have a pass through the document late next week (or 2 weeks
    time)

  - Infrastructure assumptions location
    - Has moved to 3.8. Doesn't look right.
    - Change name or move it to a different place.
    - Agreed to move it to the beginning of Ch.3.
    - Need some words to make connection with WSDM clearer.
    - Issues related to doc/literal, soap 1.1/2 assumptions etc
      - From architecture point of view are too detailed (espl. for
        this version)
      - We may have to say something about it in a later version
      - Jem to start a discussion on this on the ML.

  Action: Andreas to do the agreed on revisions to the OGSA document.
