OGSA Teleconference - 8 August 2005
===================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto
  Mark Morgan
  Ellen Stokes
  Fred Maciel
  Jem Treadwell
  Steven Newhouse
  Pete Ziu
  Ravi Subramaniam
  Takuya Mori
  Jay Unger
  Andreas Savva
 
  Minutes: Jem Treadwell

* August 3 minutes approved with no changes

* August F2F Update:
  - Hiro is waiting for detailed agendas from most working groups
  - Hope to get agendas for the next meeting

* Provisioning Discussion
  - CDDLM WG provided a proposed agenda for the f2f
  - Ravi asked: Do we require some update for the Architecture document
    that will involve CDDLM? Will they make a contribution to OGSA 1.5,
    or will we just reference them where needed?  Hiro: It is more
    likely to be in the Architecture 2.0 document, not 1.5.  But we 
    can discuss this at the f2f.

* Resource Modeling Discussion

- Fred said that we need to understand the next steps: need to make a
  decision on CIM before going too far. There followed a long discussion
  with the following key points:

  - CIM is widely used and adopted in the industry, so if
    we decide that it's not all right then we have to come up with our
    own model, which would result in all kinds of adoption problems.

  - If we determine that it's not the correct model, we should take
    the approach of making it all right - we have the support of many
    people directly involved with CIM.
  
  - There might be some perception that CIM is more suited to physical
    resources than logical - Ellen pointed out that it addresses many
    physical resources and some logical resources, but provides hooks for
    other logical resources.  We should take the approach of extending
    if we need to.

  - Steven said that we're talking about resource models, but CIM would
    be better called an information model; agreement that the terms are
    being used pretty much interchangeably, which may or may not be
    appropriate.

  - Steven asked why we're focusing on CIM, and not the GLUE schema;
    Fred responded that we've held education sessions and discussions,
    and that Ellen worked on a mapping of CIM/GLUE - now looking at 
    it again since GLUE has evolved. Jay: We'll end up looking at ways 
    to bring the models together.  Fred: would love to have GLUE 
    team members here, but they don't have the time.

  - Steven pointed out that if we want OGSA principles to be adopted
    then we must relate them to things that are being done today.
    Fred said that he has asked Jenny Schopf for a liaison, but nobody
    in the group can represent them. Steven agreed that it's an ad-hoc
    group that does things as needed.  

  - Hiro raised a concern that CIM may be too big and complex, and not
    focused enough on areas of importance - may not be able to
    successfully subset it and influence its direction.  Jay said
    that this bears investigation - we need to discover if we can have
    a consistent approach that will give us a containable view of the
    larger model - can we then use those pieces in a consistent way,
    or will it be so fragmented that it's not useful?

  - Jay said that in arguing for CIM he is not intending to short-circuit
    work to be done, but would rather spend time on a concrete experiment
    against a framework that has broader adoption - nobody adopts all
    of it!  People are successfully subsetting the model and we can
    learn from them and do a concrete experiment. If we based it on
    something else or built from scratch we would have difficulty, and
    if we were successful we might have difficulty getting it adopted.
    Would rather work on CIM and fail and know why we failed.  

  - Hiro noted that Fred and Andrea already started work, but haven't
    started writing it up.  Fred reiterated the need to discuss the
    order of things to move ahead - we need a broader discussion so that
    everyone in the WG can be comfortable with CIM.

  - Steven: I can look at GLUE and grasp it in 5 or 10 minutes, but
    can't do that with CIM.  Jay emphasized that it's important to
    demonstrate that we can do the subsetting of the framework and the
    model necessary to represent (for example) BES and batch jobs.  Ravi
    said that we need to separate resource and information models - need
    to recognize difference and translate between them. Steven agreed.

  - Pete Ziu asked if the right approach is to create an OGSA CIM profile.
    Fred: Yes, but we need extensions which we could submit to DMTF.
    We only need a small set of classes to use it in OGSA - don't need
    to go to the whole model.  Although we have started to work on
    this  twice, we have been off direction.  However, we do have a
    preliminary document, and work is progressing. 

  - Hiro said he believes Fred's strategy is right, but we need a case
    study to write up the document. Ellen said we need an agenda for
    the RM team at the f2f, so that we can go through a case study;
    we can use Fred's doc as a starting point. Steven agreed that he
    can represent GLUE in a f2f discussion

  - Fred said that we need to add information about GLUE to the document,
    but he needs somebody knowledgeable to provide the info. 

  - Ravi said that we should also capture concerns - must answer and
    address those.  Jay agreed, and suggested that we come up with a
    general notion of subsetting model and framework without fragmenting
    them to the point that they are not usable.  We need to do the
    experiment, and we need a consensus on the conditions - may fail,
    but also need to establish the criteria for the result.  There was
    agreement that we can start from the work that Fred and Andrea did.
  
  - Steven clarified that we need something that is simple and that
    anyone can understand - if that happens to be a subset of CIM that's
    fine.

  - Fred asked Steven to provide input to the RM document on what he 
    would like to see; Steven agreed to do that.

- Fred said that he's looking for help on what to do for the RM
  discussion at the f2f - What do people want? A tutorial? Jay asked for
  something to look at in advance - we need a scenario-driven agenda,
  and then a concrete discussion about what's in CIM.  Fred will
  provide an agenda after Tuesday's RM design team call.