Minutes of the OGSA Data WG Telcon, 22nd July 2005

0) Actions arising
- Allen and Dave to mail co-chairs of other groups re our GGF sessions.
- Dave to mail list with a summary of his discussion with NeSC security people.
- Stephen to update replication use case.
- Ann to organise the security notes we've taken so far into a coherent memo that we can take to the security working groups.
- Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document.

1) Early discussion 

* Roll call 
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Susan Malaika, IBM
Fred Maciel, HItachi
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Stephen Davey, NeSC
Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)

The minutes were approved.


2) Action report

- Allen to ask Julie to swap the 7:30 and 9:00 sessions at GGF [Done]
- Allen and Dave to prepare GGF presentations for review at next week's telcon [Done]
- Allen and Dave to mail co-chairs of other groups once the revised schedule is confirmed [TBD]
- Dave to write short report for OGSA WG [Done]
- Allen to attend OGSA WG call [Done]
- Stephen to update replication use case [Ongoing]
- Dave to write to LSG-RG about security. Dave will approach the OGSA WG security design team about a joint meeting.  [Done.  We will arrange a joint telcon after GGF.]
- Ann will organise the security notes we've taken so far into a coherent memo that we can take to the security working groups.  [Ongoing]
- Dave will discuss security with the NeSC security people. [Done.  Dave to summarise discussion and send to list].
- Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document. [Ongoing]

3) GGF preparation

- GGF session plan.  Nothing else to note.

- Other sessions: Some relevant sessions include:

DAIS #1: 2.00 Wednesday
Info-D: 4.30 Tuesday
ByteIO: 11.00 Wednesday
Data area: 19.00 Tuesday
OGSA-AuthZ: 12.00 Tuesday
EGA: 12.00 Tuesday

- Review of draft slides

Outreach presentation
	add who is participating as penultimate slide
	give date when WG was formed
	add Andrew's architecture picture?
	add info-D to slide 7

Outreach session plan:
	If sufficient feedback during presentation, no problem
	Otherwise, summarise results of the data transfer session...
	... and/or solicit response from audience & drill down on particular topics

Transfer
	add slide of related working groups

4) Data transfer
	No detailed discussion

5) Wrap up
	DONM: 13th July?
