OSGA Teleconference minutes - 8 February 2006
=============================================

* Participants
  
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  Action: Hiro to upload the Profiles to the GGF Editor tracker

  Action: Hiro will post the panel proposal text to the list and
          followup with the identified candidates to confirm the final
          selection.

  
* February 6 minutes approved with no changes

* Monday teleconference information (dial-in numbers) will change
  after GGF16. 

  - Many thanks to HP (Jeffrin) for providing the facilities so far.

* Basic security profiles update

  - Final call finished last Monday
  - Some minor revisions from Hiro and Jem 
  - Agreed that the profiles can be submitted to the GGF Editor
  
  Action: Hiro to upload the Profiles to the GGF Editor tracker

* WSRF Basic Profile update - no update

* RSM license - Ellen is following up.

* Glossary

  - Data Federation: Accepted 'logical' and added "In OGSA," since this
    is an OGSA specific definition.

  - Re-worked definitions for "use case" and "scenarios" merging the
    two proposals.

  Jem will upload the document but will not issue a final call. There
  will be a combined OGSA 1.5 final call (Architecture and Glossary)
  when Andreas uploads the final version late this week, early next
  week.

* Wikipedia - OGSA entry

  - Jem has updated the entry (OGSA). The motivation is just to make
    sure that the correct information is provided in that public
    forum. More detailed information will be maintained on the GGF
    site.

* GGF16 planning

** Panel discussion

   - Reviewed Andreas' draft panel description, proposed balance and
     identified candidates for participants and moderator.

  - One proposal is to have two moderators, one from industry the
    other from academia. It is interesting but there was some
    uncertainty on how well the format would work.

  - Candidates so far are mostly from academia. Looking for more
    commercial/industry representatives. Possible candidates:
    - Tony Hey (MS)
    - Franco Travostino (Nortel)
    - David Martin (IBM)
    - /Someone from Univa/

  Action: Hiro will post the panel proposal text to the list and
          followup with the identified candidates to confirm the final
          selection.

** Information model session agenda

   The session will be a working session focusing on the Modeling
   guidelines (Fred) and the container documents (Ellen)

   Proposed and accepted that it should be a bottom-up session,
   starting with the BES container to motivate the more general
   guidelines discussion---make it clear that the 'guidelines' is
   based off the process that came up with the container.

   It should be made very clear that the guidelines are formulated
   based on work actually done and are not a blue-sky description of
   an untried process.

  Expected audience for this session: EMS (mainly) and possibly Data

  - BES was initially chosen as a candidate since it is a simple(r)
    component in EMS. Along the same lines of thoughts a likely first
    candidate in data is the BYTEIO-WG---it deals with files.

  - It should also be emphasized that the RM design team is not trying
    to make more work for other WGs. The main work will be done in
    OGSA; but domain expert collaboration is needed.

  - A grid view of storage is another candidate (ref. SNIA)

* Modeling Guidelines document review

  There was not sufficient time to review the document in detail. Some
  comments were to add
  - information on how to get access to tools (RSM license);
  - that the process has been used to come up with the BES container
    model (and is not a blue-sky approach); and
  - in the introduction that basing the work on CIM is a *proposal*
    (it is mentioned in the Status section but some people might not
    look at that section).

** F2F agenda review

   - Hiro is working to fill in logistical info (location and how to
     get there)
   - Agreed to put 'Next F2F' discussion earlier in the agenda.
     Sometime in the morning is better to make sure that most
     interested parties are present.
