OGSA Teleconference - 10 December 2007 - RoadMap/Glossary
=========================================================
* Participants

  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)

  Minutes: Michael Behrens

* Summary of New Actions
  Chris to reword HPC Profile references in RoadMap
  Hiro to update OGSA security profile section in RoadMap

* Minutes approved with no change
  Aug. 6 telcon (doc14704)
  Aug. 13 F2F (doc14718)
  Aug. 27 call(doc14741)
  Oct. 1 call (doc14785)

* Action Item review
  artf6085: Closed

* OGSA roadmap 1.1 public comment review

  Discussed the HPC comment from Marty.  Marty identified portions of text which
  he would like changed.  
  Discussed briefly the option to drop the reference.  Further discussion however gained an agreement that it would be 
  best to keep the reference and rearrange or re-word it to make it clearer by not emphasizing OGSA branding.
  ACTION: Chris to remove OGSA branding from HPC titles.

  Discussed the Security profile refactoring impact to roadmap.  It is not too late to incorporate the 2.0 version details.  
  ACTION: Hiro to propose text this week to update the OGSA security profile section and tables.

  Document Tracking Spreadsheet: Andreas Added BSP 2.0 and noticed a few obsolete
  entries which he deleted.  Duane might have another version of the spreadsheet which might be merged.
  Hiro will ask Duane for an update so that it can be posted to GridForge.
 
  Planning a review on next Monday before final call.

* Roadmap

  Jem presented the results of the final call comments.

  Reviewed a few comments that came in.  Final updated version with the
  mark-up reviewed shall be uploaded and submitted to the editor.

  Thanks to Jem for a job well done!

* Other Business: 
  Note the need to appoint new editor.  No decision needed until 2.0 discussions gets underway.
  Volunteers are welcome.

  Thursday: Workflow and Information services planned, however may have a general
  session instead as leads may not be ready.  Andrew might also want to have the
  teleconference time schedules discussed.

End: 630pm EST

