OGSA Teleconference 23 July 2007 - Glossary
===========================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD)
  Dave Berry (NESC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  ZackK

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* July 9 minutes approved with no changes

* Action Item 

Action Item review

>  AI-0611c: Jem will ask the RM-WG chairs to consider the 'pool' term
>             as part of their glossary

   Jem has sent email. Dave S confirmed that the RM-WG will look at
   these terms as they fit in with their work. CLOSED.

>  AI-0709a: Dave Berry will review the OGSA Arch. 1.5 "Data section"
>            against the OGSA Data Architecture document and estimate
>            how much work is required to bring the two in sync

   Dave B has looked at and provided a marked up version with likely
   changes (sent to Jem). Reviewed later in the call. CLOSED.

>  AI-0709b: Andreas Savva will review the OGSA Arch. document and the
>            new/updated glossary terms for consistency and estimate
>            the work needed for bringing the OGSA Arch in sync with
>            the Glossary.

  Andreas has reviewed new or revised terms and has sent email to
  Jem. Reviewed later in the call. CLOSED.

>  AI-0709c: Hiro will update the teleconference schedule to move the
>            July 30 Glossary session to July 23

   Re-scheduled. CLOSED.

* Review of OGSA Architecture Data Section proposed revisions

  Reviewed Dave B's marked up version.

  All changes seem minor and contained within the Data Section. These
  reflect primarily changes that would be necessary to align with the
  Glossary and the new Data Architecture document.
  - To make it more consistent with the Data Architecture a few more
    subsection changes are needed.  But again nothing major; mainly
    structural changes.
  - Data terms are still being discussed to some extent, and there may
    be minor changes. The terms data resource and data service are
    unlikely to go away or substantially changed.

  Discussed whether this section should be called Data Management
  Services. Agreed that this term should be used for the OGSA
  Arch. document to mirror other terminology, e.g., EMS. The Data
  Architecture document might not use this term given the different
  context.

  The Data Architecture document is going to public comment soon. That
  document should go through first before revising the OGSA
  Arch. document.

* Review of non-Data proposed revisions

  Andreas reviewed changed or new terms and whether any changes are
  needed in the OGSA Architecture document. Very minor changes are
  needed. The classification by term was

** Does not exist (& care) -  None

** Does not exist (& don't care)

  - EGA / Enterprise Grid Alliance
  - Enterprise computing

** Meaning is different -   None

** Probably ok, but might need some work

  - provisioning / deployment  [might be worth a closer read]
  - Service level agreement  [ok, the glossary is more detailed than Arch.]
  - Service level objective [ok, not used that often; SLO not used.]

** Look ok

  Enterprise
  e-science
  Global Grid Forum
  Grid Computing
  OGF / Open Grid Forum
  Resource
  Service
  State [ok, perhaps "...change..attribute..is an event" is better as
         "...may be an event" ref. Event definition also]
  Virtualization

* Reference Model terms

  Confirmed that it is ok to leave out the excluded ones. The RM-WG is
  planning a specification and accompanying glossary and will provide
  normative definitions for some of these terms, e.g., grid component.

* Glossary publication options

  Agreed that the Glossary should be published as a new version.

  Discussed whether the OGSA Architecture would qualify for an errata
  release or not. Rough agreement that it could be an errata given
  that there are no major changes. The errata requirements as
  described by OGF are not restrictive. Given there is no experience
  publishing errata versions the OGF Editor should be consulted. The
  marked-up version produced by Dave B can be used for this
  discussion.

  AI-0723a: Andreas Savva will consult the OGF Editor on whether this
            level of changes for the OGSA Architecture document would
            qualify for an errata publication.

  Should the new Glossary be sent out now or in parallel with the Data
  Architecture document?
  - The Data Architecture document is expected to be finished by the
    end of August. Dave B agreed to give an update at the F2F.
  - Agreed there is no strong need to synchronize the two
    documents. Jem will do a final call in a week or so and then check
    if there is any need to synchronize with the Data Architecture
    document.

