Teleconference minutes - 6 March 2006
=====================================

* Participants

  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (EMC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  Action: Candidate hosts should check availability and facilities for
          F2F and report back on Wednesday's call

  Action: Jem will check whether there are any HP branding conditions
          (or formatting, logos, etc) to the webcast.
 
  Action: Hiro to add webcast preparation to the F2F agenda

  Action: Tom to do a final call for the WSRF BP on the list

* Minutes of February 27 approved with no changes

* OGSA-HPC design team update (as reported by Hiro)

  Marvin will be selecting a time slot for the design team
  teleconferences. Most of the discussion should be done on the
  mailing list, however.

  Marvin will join the April F2F by phone and may attend in person if
  the meeting is held on the West coast.

* OGSA 1.5 (Arch and Glossary) status update

  Final call issued on the list. Deadline is Wednesday's
  teleconference in order to allow for any last minute changes and
  submission by the end of the week.

* April F2F update

  Reviewed the survey results and weighted the merits and de-merits of
  various venues and dates.
  
  Re-selected April 4-7 at west coast (Bay Area) as the first choice.
  Possible hosts:
    - Hitachi America (Fred to check network connectivity)
    - IBM (at a choice of location in the Bay area) 

  Action: Candidate hosts should check availability and facilities for
          F2F and report back on Wednesday's call

* Webcast discussion

  Jem reported that HP can provide the facilities to do an OGSA
  webcast, including recording and archiving for later use. Features
  also include polls during the webcast, online chat, keeping track of
  number of people registering, attendind, how long they attended,
  etc.

  There are 3-4 available slots (2 hours long but can use a portion
  only) and depending on the date between 100-200 can
  participate. Participants dial in.

  A moderator controls the session, while people who login as
  presenters can control the slides. Slides must be static and should
  be sent in advance. Even if that was not the case it would be good
  to prepare and have the slides ready 1 week in advance.

  When scheduled HP will publicise it to other companies. It therefore
  has the potential to attract people that OGSA can not typically
  reach. So good preparation is needed.

  Considering the above, a date late in April is better to allow more
  time to prepare. The webcast preparation should also be added to the
  F2F agenda.

  Action: Jem will check whether there are any HP branding conditions
          (or formatting, logos, etc) to the webcast.

  Action: Hiro to add webcast preparation to the F2F agenda

* WSRF BP status update

  Tom has done the edits necessary to bring the BP up to date with the
  OASIS Standard versions of WSRF.

  Action: Tom to do a final call for the WSRF BP on the list

* Other business

  Jem has updated the front page of the OGSA-WG gridforge site with
  text taken from the charter. A table of already published documents
  may also be added.

  There was a discussion on whether it is worth waiting for the new
  version of gridforge or not. Hiro mentioned that the gridforge site
  may be upgraded before or at GGF17. The new site will also include a
  wiki.

  It is not clear yet whether some of the documents, e.g., glossary,
  should be made into wikis. (Do we want short, precise definitions as
  in the current document or more explanation, e.g., a page for each
  term?)

* Wednesday call

    - Review information modeling guidelines (Fred)
    - Webcast update (Jem)
