OGSA Teleconference 22 December 2004
====================================

* Participants 

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes for December 20 approved with no changes

* OGSA version 1.0

  - Reviewed main changes and remaining open issues; also did a number
    of edits online.
    - Author/editor re-ordering on first page
    - Deleted '...purpose and form...' in introduction and changed the
      way the next version is described.
    - en-dash to em-dash change for consistency
    - Requirements section 2.1.: Added 'interoperability' in title
      - Should be made a separate section in post-v1 versions
    - Ian's comment on virtualization: post-v1
    - Resource management: Changed 'service instances' to 'services'
    - Reviewed references and style

  - To do (Andreas)
    - Figure 2: workflow should be capitalized (Workflow)
    - Move the copyright and intellectual property notices to the
      back.
    - Make sure that spelling is consistent: change english to US spelling
    - Add MUWS / MOWS references now that WSDM work has reached
      committee draft.
    - Add general acknowledgement for public comment reviewers and
      name Philipp Wieder since he gave very comprehensive comments.
    - Upload the new draft (draft 21) keeping the changes to draft 20
      visible.

* Glossary version 1.0

  - Reviewed main changes and remaining open issues; also did a number
    of edits online.
    - Reviewed references and style.
    - Reviewed and revised definitions of terms, removed unused ones
      (e.g., MPICH) and modified others in line with usage (e.g., SLM
      to refer to manager not management).
  
  - To do (Jem)
    - Add acknowledgement for public comment reviewers
    - If possible, add all authors in references (do not abbreviate
      with 'et al'.) Update entries of documents since some have
      reached stable states.
    - Upload a new draft (change tracked)
