Minutes for the OGSA Data WG telcon, January 25th.

Actions arising:

* New actions

- Stephen to add a paragraph to the architecture document about reasons for naming.
- Stephen will update the scenarios document with comments from the F2F.
- Dave to start a mail conversation about managing URIs.
- Dave to revise the "big picture" diagrams.
- Dave to send draft definition of "data federation" to list for feedback.  

* Ongoing actions

- Allen to work on an integration pass, including a scoping section.
- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.
- Mario to arrange update of the ByteIO subsection.
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections.
- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.
- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation. 


1) Early discussion

* Roll call 
Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Stephen Davey, NeSC
Allen Luniewski, IBM

The minutes were approved.
The agenda was amended as below.

2) Action report

- Dave to check dates for submitting documents for GGF16 [We've missed it]
- Allen to work on an integration pass, including a scoping section. [Ongoing]
- Dave to investigate Skype or phone for OGSA Data session at F2F. [Done]
- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.
- Mario to update the Access section and make text available for comment. [Mostly done; Neil has volunteered to amend the ByteIO section].
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections.
- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.
- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation. 

3) Progress & planning update

See action reports (above) for the status of the architecture document.
Stephen to add a paragraph to the architecture document about reasons for naming.
Stephen will update the scenarios document with comments from the F2F.

Chris Jordan is secretary of GFS and is forging links there.
We would like to see WGs created to work on replication, registries, ...

Telcons: review documents as and when ready.


4) F2F feedback

Report of F2F meeting

Feedback from OGSA:
We need to get the minutes of the session from Neil or Andreas.

- EMS also needs registry service; OGSA would like to see a registry service defined.

- Need URIs to name formats, query languages, protocols, & interfaces.  The OGSA meeting noted GFD.58 which defines how to construct namespaces, and ByteIO have used this to name some protocols.  We also need the ability for people to create their own URIs (i.e. it should be extensible), as has been stressed by discussion in DAIS.  DAIS noted that various query languages have vendor-specific variants and vendors may not want to delegate to a particular scheme.  Dave to start a mail conversation about it.

- Various minor items.

5) Discussion of "data federation"

Draft from Jem; Allen preferred use of "service" rather than "resource".
Stephen regards integration as making a single set of data from the various parts, whereas federation is about access to distributed data.  Dave to send to list for feedback.  Perhaps suggest that we use "data integration" as a synonym.

6) Discussion of big picture

We discussed the various comments.  Dave to revise accordingly.


7) Wrap up

Next meetings:

Feb 1st:	Modified diagram, possibly new versions of documents.
Feb 8th:
Feb 13th-16th:	GGF16 in Athens
