======================================================================
ACS Teleconference 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: July 27 20:10-21:00 EDT 2005 / July 28 9:10-10:00 JST, 2005
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Tom Studwell (IBM)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Sachiko Wada (ASCADE) - minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* OGSA F2F agenda
   Pete or Mike will present overview of ACS at the OGSA F2F.
   We will discuss the presentation material at the ACS F2F next week.

* Review of the "proposed schedule for the spec. writing." 
   We will discuss the process to write the draft at the F2F.
 Action: Everyone, to find which of the chapters he/she can contribute by F2F.

* Continued discussion of use case for archive creation
   We will discuss this at the F2F.
   This topic comes up at the early session of the first day.
   Keisuke requested the answers to the question posted on July 21.

* Updates
** Meeting with NAREGI PSE.
   Keisuke reported the overview of the meeting with NAREGI PSE.
    - They are satisfied with overall framework of ACS.
    - They will implement their own version control and won't rely on the
      ACS on version control, and they simply register and remove the archive
      rather than keep updating.
    - The signature is not required on AA in their use case. 
    - They are planning their own meta data repository
      because they believe most will be their use case specific.
    - Keisuke asked them to show us their meta data items so that we examine 
      if we can incorporate them in the AAD as opaque items for ACS. 
** SDD and ACS
   SDD TC is now gathering use cases and requesting one from ACS.
   The gathered use cases will be observable on the SDD TC site.
   We will discuss this at the F2F.

* Next call
    We will discuss the schedule toward GGF15 at the F2F

 Action: Keisuke, to send agenda of the F2F.
