OGSA Teleconference - 11 December 2006
======================================

* Participants

  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Alan Sill (TTU)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  
  Apologies: Paul Strong, Chris Jordan, Ellen Stokes, Andrew Grimshaw
  
  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of new actions

  AI-1211a: Hiro to check with Takuya for any last minute changes and
            submit "BP - Secure Channel" for publication

  AI-1211b: Hiro will arrange for the management software demo session
            not to conflict with any OGSA session at OGF19

* Nov 30 teleconference minutes approved with no changes

* Action Item review

  - AI.11.09.pm-b: Closed. This is a BES issue.
  - AI-11.30a: Ellen is waiting for a response from DAIS-WG

* SML one-way session 

  - Session is now scheduled for *January 22* at the time of the
    regular OGSA call. It will be held using a different dial-in (to
    be sent out by Hiro) and under different IPR.

* OGSA secure channel 

  - Final call is finished.
  
  AI-1211a: Hiro to check with Takuya for any last minute changes and
            submit "BP - Secure Channel" for publication

* Roadmap and EGA Reference model postponed

  - Discussed whether to have calls next week.  Agreed to a Monday
    (Dec 18). These topics will be re-scheduled for the 18th.

* MDC report

  Ellen's presentation went well. Got some feedback from key people
  and they seem to understand what OGSA-WG is doing.

  Tom Maguire arranged a meeting with Jim Davies. Discussed and agreed
  to holding a demo with working (DMTF standards-based) software at
  OGF19. 

  AI-1211b: Hiro will arrange for the management software demo session
            not to conflict with any OGSA session at OGF19

  OGF booth distributed pamphlet on OGF management related activities.
  - Thanks to all who reviewed or contributed material to it.

* GFSG meeting report

  (Note this is information that is or will be publically available.)

  - GFSG reconfirmed OGSA as 'flagship architecture'; will include
    such statement in future documents.
  - An overview of current activities within OGSA-WG was given, in
    particular the work done in relation to the EGA Reference
    Model. 
    - There may be a BOF at the next OGF to discuss how to continue
      the Reference Model work. 
    - There was agreement that the name could be changed to something
      like "OGF Reference Model."
  - Approved "BSP - Core."  It should be published within the year.
  - Approved the DMTF Work Register
  - Approved the AuthN BOF request
    - Discussed tension between short term requirements (simple
      solution for hpc profile style work) and longer term work needed
      for a proper solution.  Security issues will be further
      discussed on the Thursday call.
  - OGF19 schedule is not online yet. It is expected to become public
    by this Friday
  - Workflow: GFSG expressed both a need and concerns for such work

* EMS Scenarios review

  There was a document review last Thursday. The document is almost
  complete. 
  - Did a quick overview of tracker.
    - 2 deferred issues for next version
    - 12 fixed that Hiro will close after reviewing the document
    - 1 pending; text was received befor the call
  - Glossary section was completely reformatted. Terms are in general
    agreement with GFD.81 but offer more description.
  - The Contributors section needs update

  It is expected to go to a final call sometime this week and then to
  the OGF Editor for public comment. It is likely that the public
  comment will overlap OGF19 so the EMS session should include a short
  overview of this document to solicit more comments.

* Glossary discussion

  - DMTF: Discussed whether to add such entries (names of standards
    bodies) and agreed not to. (GFD.80 expands and adds urls as
    footnotes as needed.)
  - SLA : Merge definitions as suggested by Jem
  - SLO : Keep OGSA definition
  - Utility computing: This is a general term that is mentioned once
    in GFD.80 in the Use Case table. The context is not
    technical. 
    - Agreed that the Glossary should still stay focused on the OGSA
      Architecture document, and especially technical terms
    - Agreed this is a borderline case. (Keep and review again)

  The next Glossary discussion will be held at the end of next
  Monday's call.
