OGSA Teleconference - 12 February 2007 - Slot 1
===============================================

* Participants

   Mike Behrens (R2AD)
   Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
   Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
   Bahareh Rahmanzadeh
   Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
   Ellen Stokes (IBM)
   Paul Strong (eBay)

   Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Topic of this call: Reference Model

* Minutes approval

  - Should the minutes of January 25 be approved? 
    - No, it was an Information Model call and should be approved at
      the next slot allocated to that design team. Postponed

  - Approved OGF19 session 2 - reference model - minutes only

  - Agreed that given the new call structure minutes approval (incl
    OGF19) must be split per topic

* Action items review

  - AI-0122a: Sent out by Hiro before this call. Closed
  - AI-0122b: Done at OGF19. Closed
  - AI-1023d: Done. Closed
  - AI-1023g: Done. closed

* OGF19 Reference Model Charter BOF report

  Paul gave an overview on the BOF using the slides used at OGF19. 

  - [Slide 4]: is 'configuration ...' same as in EGA reference model
    or different?
    - Related issue is what to do with the existing use case set and
      how to take those forward. Their refinement are not part of the
      work of the proposed group.
    - 'Monitoring' is stated as later work but is required in support of
      other parts/activities
      - Yes, but the desire is to focus on information model as a
        first step
  - [Slide 5] Also to add SysML. It looks like a subset or profile of
     UML for systems engineering. It is owned by OMG.
     - The desire is to avoid reinvent things and re-use as much as
       possible existing work
     - Paul will review the document (~500 pages) [Reported on the
       list that it is not applicable to this work.]
  - [Slide 7] UML is good but may need more free text description

  - OGSA has agreed to use IBM RSM for UML work. Last year Ellen set
    it up so that GGF members could register and download through the
    IBM academic initiative site.
    - Andreas re-sent out the email [Later this information was also
      put on the wiki.]

  - Who should own reconciling OGSA & EGA Reference Model?
    - Agreed it would be within scope of the new Reference Model WG
      and not OGSA-WG

  - Proposed co-chairs are  Paul Strong & Dave Snelling
  - Core members/volunteers: Chris Kantarjiev & Hiro Kishimoto

  - Agreed at OGF19 that it should be just 'Reference Model' with no
    prefix

  - Current status: Waiting for approval from GFSG. But that should
    not stop work in the meantime. A BOF list is already setup.

  - Have separate calls or continue sharing an OGSA slot?
    - Already allocated a Feb. 26 OGSA call slot but once the WG is
      formally approved a separate teleconference is more appropriate
    - Since the WG is expected to be approved the group should start
      separate calls and the proposed chairs should arrange it.
    - A joint call can still be done to report on progress or to get
      specific feedback from OGSA-WG.
