OGSA Teleconference - 21 September 2005
=======================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)  
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Allen Luniewski (IBM)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Dejan Milojicic (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Pete Ziu (Northrop Grumman)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Apologies: Ellen Stokes

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes approval

  - Sep 14 minutes approved with modifications. Hiro to correct.
  - Sep 19 minutes approval postponed for next week.

* October F2F Update

  - Request to put Naming early on Thursday
    - Andrew has a conflicting session (Community track)
    - Agreed to schedule the naming session mid-morning

  - Proposal to start early Thursday the morning: 
    - Agreed to start at 8:00am since many people plan to leave early.

  - From the survey so far more than 20 people are expected. Also some
    people (Fred, Jem) haven't completed the survey yet.
    - It was noted that many people are attending only some portions
      (mainly Thursday morning) so even if more than 20 people are on
      the list the IBM facility may be adequate.

  - Jay has a logistics document describing location and so on and
    will send it to Hiro.

  - Actions on Jay
    - Re-check the real room capacity (stated at ~20 people)
    - Reserve a projector
      - Jem volunteered to bring a projector if one is not
        available. Need advance notice
    - Check if there is a telephone line
    - Provide updated status by Monday

  - Hitachi (Fred) might be an alternative venue but it is further
    away.

  - Hiro will put together a complete agenda/logistics doc and send to
    the list.

* Resource Metadata Editor discussion postponed (prefer to have Dave
  Snelling on the call for this discussion)

* EMS 

  - Agreed to postpone technical discussion (many key people missing)
  - Agreed (last call) that viewing a CDDLM demo would improve
    understanding of CDDLM functionality. This demo could be arranged
    a number of different ways:
    - On a CDDLM call (possibly adding Ayla's demo)
    - On an OGSA call (specifically for OGSA)
    - This Friday there is a demo from Softricity (CDDLM call)
    - CDDLM demo during GGF15
  
    Prefer to do it on OGSA call. Dejan will ask Ayla to do demo on
    the OGSA call next week (Wed).
    - Ayla's slides are a good introduction. Dejan has forwarded a
      link to the OGSA list. But note that the presentation is likely
      to be updated before the next demo.
               
    - OGSA members are also welcome to join the CDDLM calls and view
      the other demos.

    For GGF15 the OGSA status session overlaps one of the CDDLM
    sessions. This OGSA session is a high-level oveview session and it
    is not essential for CDDLM members to attend.

    - The last GGF15 CDDLM session (Monday 6pm) is reserved for
      discussions with other groups (ACS, OGSA).
    - The second CDDLM session is for demos.

    - BES and CDDLM connection? 
      - It should be explored in the context of EMS rather than just
        between CDDLM and BES. BES is focused on producing its own
        spec.

    - Stuart is working on refining Mike's sequence diagram and may
      have something by next call.

* OGSA WSRF Basic Profile Review

  - Submission schedule
    - Initial plan called for waiting for the completion of the
      security profiles and their simultaneous submission with the
      WSRF BP. But the security profiles are likely to take some
      time---definitely cannot be ready by GGF15.
    - Agreed to (re-)submit BP first (Note BP was submitted a few
      months back and then placed in a temporary 'hold' state.)
    - Also agreed to try and speed up the basic security profiles in
      order to have a partially overlapping public comment period with
      the BP.

  - Exclude UDDI portion of WS-I BP 1.1
    - There is no specific reference to UDDI in OGSA WSRF BP 1.0
      (functionality is out of scope) but it is included by reference
      to BP 1.1.
    - Agreed that is should be explicitly excluded from the OGSA WSRF
      BP.
    - Discovery is important and should be covered somewhere; perhaps
      as a separate profile. But we cannot take a position on what the
      mechanisms are at this point.
    - Agreed to add a clarification to Hiro's proposed text to address
      the possible question of where discovery might be covered.

  - Has there been a complete review of BP 1.1 to make sure there are
    no other features that are being included by accident?
    - No. But Hiro is not aware of any other issues.
    - Agreed that such a review should be done but there is no reason
      to hold up the submission for this. The review can be done
      during public comment. The Authors/Contributors in particular
      should be encouraged to do this review.

  - Hiro will make the necessary change to the WSRF BP and do a final
    call on the list. The plan is to submit it to Greg by the end of
    this week.

