OGSA Teleconference - 5 November 2007  - Logistics
==================================================
* Participants

  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Stephen Newhouse (University of Southampton/OMII-UK)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)

  Minutes: Michael Behrens

* Summary of New Actions
  Hiro to send e-mail to Steve/David regarding hosting F2F.
  Hiro to send out Jan 9-11 F2F dates to mailing list for feedback.
  Hiro to send e-mail to Chris regarding Andrew as Co-Chair.

* Minutes 12 July (doc14664) approved with no changes
* Minutes 13 Aug approved with no changes
* Minutes 19 Oct F2F (doc14884) approved with no changes

* Action Item review

  artf6042: Closed
  artf6039: Closed 
  artf6041: Closed (results to be discussed today)
  artf6040: Closed
  artf6005: Closed (to be discussed today)


* F2F Schedule

  Discussion on surveymonkey results: Jan looks good.
  Stephen asked what's wrong with Jan 7-9, answer: too close to Japanese New year holidays.
  Andreas proposes Jan 9-11 UK.
  Stephen: Is there a telecon consensus on 9-11?  No Objections.
  - CONSENSUS on telecon that Jan 9-11 would be doable.
  Still need to confirm a location: Imperial College desirable (central London).
  - ACTION: Hiro to send e-mail to Steve/David regarding hosting F2F.
  - ACTION: Hiro will send out to the entire mailing list for feedback.

* Telecon Schedule

  Discussion on current calender.
 
  8th: 	Primer: Ellen asked for some high-level examples for Thursday's call.  Awaiting to hear back.
  12th: Info Modelling Guidelines and Security Profile 2.0. However SuperComputing dates are 12-15th, so   	move workflow to the 29th and move the General/Amin 1 hour earlier.
  19th: Glossary Update.  
  26th:  Security
  29th: Workflow now in the early slot.  Primer moved to Dec 6th.

  See OGSA Calendar for the other meetings and the updates.

* Nomination for Andrew's nomination
  - ACTION: Hiro to send e-mail to Chris as next step.

