OGSA Teleconference May 19, 2004
================================

* Participants

  Sachiko Wada (Ascade) 
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel) 
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Chris Smith (Platform)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)

  Apologies: Latha Srinivasan

  Notes: Andreas Savva

* Early Discussion

** No minutes for approval

** Agenda bashing.

  - Review of teleconf schedule and status of drafts

  - Requirements draft out shortly before the call
  - EMS (PE) draft out before the call
  - Data draft
    - Out before call. Essentially the same as the text included in
      OGSA v16.
    - Might have to come and review it again after data call review.

  - Self-management draft
    - Review scheduled for next call (Monday) but it does not look
      likely that a (final) draft will be ready by then.  (Only had 2
      calls so far and are at outline level plus some text.)

  - Context draft
    - Jeffrin will try to do a draft, espl Policy management, since it
      is relevant to self-management.
    - Contributors to the Context section are needed. Contact Hiro
      and/or Jeffrin.

  - Design teams should make sure that teleconference announcements
    are sent to the OGSA list not just to the design team members.

* GGF11

  Action: Panel ideas, send to DaveS, Andrew, Hiro asap.

  - Plan for next OGSA draft (for GGF11)
    - Produce the draft about a week before GGF11
    - Design teams should keep working on their sections separately
      and submit their final text by the end of May to Andreas
    - Andreas will put the document together

* EMS review

  - Andrew added WS- prefix (WS-EMS) to raise the question of whether
    this is something that we should be doing in general
    - Agreed to remove for now (maybe use OGSA-EMS instead)

  - Outline of document
    - What's in it and what's not (e.g., provisioning)

  - Demand/Supply meta-pattern
    - (Comment that workload optimization appears more than once in
      the figure; Andrew to check)

  - The explanation is reduced a bit and does not go into interface
    details. (The more detailed text is still in the older document
    and will be used for future versions.)

  - Container: CMM managed resource -> WSDM

  - Scenarios: Not just legacy job execution. Cover other scenarios
    like system patch, etc.

  - Fred had some comments on the usage of 'resource'
    - There is a resource subsection but doesn't cover just resources
    - There are resource 'things' in other sections
    - Also contrast with CMM doc resource definitions and examples,
      e.g., job is resource.
    
  - Add another section "Interactions with OGSA" and explicitly move
    deployment/configuration there
  - Rename resource section

  - Chris pointed out that the term "data container" is
    misleading. 
    - 'container' has a lot of extra baggage and gives the wrong image
      (this entity does not contain the data anyway)
    - Searching for another term. 
    - It's maintains metadata; relates handle (via access mechanism)
      to data.
    - Tentatively came up with "persistency data management service"
      (this may change)
    - Also there is no mention of maintaining meta-data in the
      description; put back in.

  - Some discussion on whether to change reservation to agreement
    - Reservation as one type of agreement
    - Breaking it out identifies the need for (domain) term language
    - WS-Agreement is an infrastructure service
    - Is there a reservation service or not. E.g., a broker may look
      like a reservation service it but is actually doing reservations
      on behalf of clients by talking to resources. (And reservation
      lies with resource.)
    - So reservation as an agreement pattern
    - Patterns are relevant to EMS; and somethings are implemented as patterns

  Action: Ravi to do revision of how he thinks this text should be
          presented and send to Andrew

* Data review

  - This draft was reviewed in a data call
  - Some things to do:
    - Add more scenarios (e.g., direct access)
    - Transparency discussion needs more work
    - Client api: add motivation
    - Information dissemination group to send material on notification
    - Add EMS to interactions with rest of OGSA
    - Legal and Ethical restrictions rewrite 'have to' -> may, etc. 
    - See data call minutes for more details.

  - Not sure how to fit in supply/demand meta-pattern for data
    - Supply: as a data source 
    - Provisioning: makes it available
    - Demand: where it is used: e.g., end user. Might include caching
      services, replication etc.
    - Also Indirection (caching) as an optimization mechanism.
    - Also Replication as supply side optimization
    - It's ok for a consumer (demand side) to be also a producer
      (supply side)
    
  Action: DaveB to do a draft just re-using the concept. It doesn't
          have to fit exactly.

  - No major objections to draft so far. Design team is eager to start
    talking about arhitecture.

* Requirements review

  - Draft by Andreas, Sachiko, Hiro.
  - Revised based on comments from interim. Not all comments are
    included yet. Some things to do are added as a list at the end of
    the section. (Text that has just been added or still needs work is
    sometimes highlighed in yellow.)
    
  - 1.3 was changed to "Resource Optimization" but might be better to
        change to just "Optimization" (it is not just for resource.)
  - 1.9 'pattern' rather a requirement.

  - Standard protocols: 
    -  Andrew suggested adding some text like "...as well to simplify
       to transition to using Grids" because existing
       standards/protocols (e.g., NFS, CIFS, etc) should be leveraged
       to ease/promote adoption
  - Ease of use: Part of using standard protocols e.g., cifs, nfs.

  - Might be better to call out as Design goals rather than requirements
    - Ease-of-use
    - Extensibility
    - Availability
    - Administrative cost

  - Andrew did a draft of the Design Philosophy section. One idea is
    to take out from the requirements section some of the items above
    and put there, but it is not clear if that section will be ready
    in time for GGF11.

  - Add more text on characteristics of grid systems: long lived and evolving
  - Make sure that the section is talking about things that are at the
    same level or have the same intent

  - Discussion on whether to leave use case table in or not
    - Andreas is thinking of removing it since all references to use
      cases were removed from requirements. Might put it as an
      appendix and refer to it.
    - If there is a reference to use cases then also refer to the use
      cases in the tier2 document too. Requirements are also driven
      from some of those use cases.
    - If the table is left in then also add a table for the tier2 use
      cases

  - Think of what the system provides vs what the user requires (espl,
    since use cases are presented)

  - Add more on adapticity (all sections after 1.8)
    - Quality of what the system provides vs dynamic environment
    
  - Functions provided for manageability vs  functions to manage

  - More on non-functional requirements. (Some things have been added
    after 1.9)

  - From Ravi's comments: It is not clear what infrastructure refers to.

  - Rewrite "OGSA should" to something more readable.

  - Protection: Might include things like data encryption,
    anti-virus, mutual authorization
  - Protection of data, services, intrusionm system of being corrupted,
    malicious or unauthorized use.
  - Text mentions protection. Consider if some of the above should
    also be added.

  Action: Ravi to send some text relating to his comments to Andreas.