Summary of conference call February 15, 2005

In attendance:
 
    Tom Roney            <troney@ncsa.uiuc.edu>
    Susan Malaika      <malaika@us.ibm.com>
    Norman Paton        <norm@cs.man.ac.uk>
    Dave Pearson       <dave.pearson@oracle.com>
    Mario Antonioletti  <mario@epcc.ed.ac.uk>

This teleconference call was in conjunction with a DAIS-WG
teleconference call.  This is the first, and possibly the
only, call the CGS-WG will have since the conclusion of
the GGF12 conference and prior to the GGF13 conference.
There have been several email exchanges and a lot of work
done in this timeframe, and the mission of the group will
have been accomplished at the conclusion of the GGF13
conference.

At GGF13, the CGS-WG will have two sessions:

  Monday  March 14 -- 5:00 (90 Min)
  Tuesday March 15 -- 11:00 (90 Min)

On Monday, March 14, the topic of the session will be how
to contribute to the support of CIM within the GGF, after
the CGS working group disbands.  In scheduling the session,a request was made that the timeslot should not overlap an
OGSA timeslot, if possible.  But OGSA does have a session
at this same 5pm hour, and all the key OGSA people will be
at that meeting.  This is really too bad, because we wanted
key OGSA players to be actively involved in the discussion,
hoping that they would invite a CIM-support effort into
their Architecture Area as a research or working group.
Fred Maciel has agreed to attend this CGS session and to
co-host the discussion, taking back to the OGSA working
group a summary of what takes place.  Fred is a key player
in the OGSA working group, and we very much welcome and
appreciate his unbending support.

On Tuesday, March 15, the topic of the session will be the
SRIM document.  Susan Malaika will lead this session, as it
is her DAIS-WG doing the development work on this project.
It is agreed that the project, if not completed by the end
of GGF13, will move from within the CGS-WG into the DAIS-WG,
and that, as will be the case with all future CIM-related
schema, the GGF working group will collaborate directly with
the DMTF, and no longer with an intermediary collaborative
group, such as the CGS-WG.  This will, in fact, seal the
CGS-WG project as being completed.

There does seem to be some concensus that CIM is still in
need of a supportive effort within the GGF.  So this should
be a primary topic at the GGF13 conference.  Our regular
DMTF members will not be attending the conference, after
they spent lots of time and money and tremendous effort for
their GGF12 attendance and presentations, for very little
show of support by the GGF membership -- proving that a
supportive effort within the GGF is still necessary.

Here is an idea to open the discussion:

 A CIM research group on a mission to determine what it is
 that GGF working groups require in the way of grid-related
 information models that are not yet represented in the CIM. 
 And then to set up a collaboration between specific DMTF
 and GGF working groups to develop these models as they
 become known.  This would map the relationship between
 GGF and CIM.  It would link GGF working groups within a
 structure that would define where the working groups
 connect and overlap, and where there are disconnects.
 Currently, there is no way for anyone to \"see\" how GGF
 working groups map to any structure.  CIM would then
 become this underlying structure, and the whole of GGF
 would benefit.
