OGSA Teleconference - 24 January 2005
=====================================

* Participants

  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi) 
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Steve Newhouse (OMII)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* January 19 minutes approved with no changes

* F2F update

  - Andrew is negotiating with the hotel (Westin). They are asking
    600USD for a network connection to the conference room. Andrew
    will talk to them further and also check out the Hilton and some
    other airport hotels.
  - Steven Newhouse will be attending
  - Still waiting to hear if more Data people will be attending

* GGF13 update

  - Room allocation: Agreed that with the exception of the "Outreach"
    session smaller rooms are better (~60 people). Hiro to reply to
    Stacey.

  - Discussed deliverables for GGF13:
    - Basic Profile 
      - Publishing a draft looks feasible based on recent (and
        expected) progress

    - Roadmap document
      - Draft is the one produced before GGF12. It is about 4 pages.
      - Showed TOC at GGF12 but not discussed further. There has been
        no progress since GGF12.
      - Our original schedule calls for a final version of this
        document at GGF13. It looks unlikely.

      Followup/Volunteers:
        - Hiro will talk with Jay; Jay was willing to work on this in
          the past.
        - Jem might be able to work on this; but probably cannot put
          much time in before the F2F.

    - Profile Template document: 
      - Agreed to keep this as a separate document and publish for
        GGF13
      - Tom will talk with Dave S on what the next steps for that
        document.

* OGSA v1 & Glossary

  - Andreas and Jem went through the last drafts, pointing out main
    changes.

  - It was agreed to change "initiate" back to "instantiate" in the
    EMS section and relevant Glossary entry.

  - If the CMM GFD number is not known this week then the documents
    will be submitted anyway with a note to the GGF Editor to update
    the bibliography entry for publication.

  - Jem and Andreas will respond to all public comments by Friday.

  - The final versions (with comments removed and all changes
    accepted) should be uploaded to the GGF Editor tracker by Friday
    1/28.

  - No new comments expected; but if comments are received then they
    will probably be deferred for v2.
  
  - Ravi raised the SNIA glossary as an example and suggested
    publishing the OGSA Glossary as a booklet.

  - Andrew will raise the issue with the GFSG: Publish the whole
    series (Use Case, OGSA version 1.0, and Glossary) and distribute
    them at GGF13.

* SNIA report

  - Ravi reported on the SNIA visit; a brief session of 2 hours.
  - Discussion on adoption of CIM and how to work with GGF, including
    discussion on how to partition space so as not to step on each
    other's toes.
  - EGA reps were also there; a couple of presentations with focus on
    data centers. Their focus is on how to take existing stuff and
    make them workable. In contrast the GGF focus is on new standards
    rather than implementations.

* Next call
  
  - Basic profile discussion is probably ok
  - May not be ready for an EM profile discussion
    - Andrew and Ravi have some ideas (OMII, GT as examples); agreed
      to work independently (for now) and compare notes later on.
    - Perhaps an early draft by the F2F.
