OGSA Teleconference - 30 January 2006
=====================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (EMC)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  - Agreed to add text in "BSP - Core" section 1.2 "Relationships
    with other Profiles": Hiro to provide

  Action: Takuya to update BSP - Core and do a final call on the
          mailing list (within one 1 week)

  Action: Takuya to update BSP - Secure Channel and do a final call on
          the mailing list (within one 1 week)

  Action: Tom will update the schema and claim URIs

  Action: Andreas will send the correct claim URIs to Takuya

  Action: Tom will will talk with Dave S about the timing and what
          changes might be required for the WSRF BP.

  Action: Andreas to update F2F minutes as agreed for approval

* Jan 25 minutes not available; approval postponed.

* IBM SDO program

  - Some progress, but still waiting for procedure to become clear.

* Review of Basic Security Profile - Core

  - Updated URI based on namespaces document (GFD.58)
  - Accepted Jem's changes
  - Agreed to add text in "BSP - Core" section 1.2 "Relationships
    with other Profiles": Hiro to provide
  - In Appendix A, WS-I BP should be removed. Also the 2nd and 3rd
    references are not referred to by the profile only by mini-spec
    and should be moved.
  - Other minor edits contributed by Hiro accepted

  Action: Takuya to update BSP - Core and do a final call on the
          mailing list (within one 1 week)

* Review of Basic Security Profile - Secure Channel

  - Appendix C includes informative text that is not
    sufficient. Discussed whether to add text or delete the subsection
    entirely and agreed to delete Appendix C completely
  - ENDPOINTREFERENCE is not used in the claims: delete
  - Other minor edits contributed by Hiro accepted

  Action: Takuya to update BSP - Secure Channel and do a final call on
          the mailing list (within one 1 week)

* Review of WSRF BP 

  - Reviewed and made minor revision to the 'Relations' text proposed
    by Tom. Hiro sent it out on the list for comments.

  - Agreed to change the claim and schema URIs in accordance to
    GFD.58.
    - Andreas added a comment about the conformance claim URI to the
      WSRF BP public comment tracker.

  - Discussed format of claim URI. Since it is not a schema it should
    not use "schemas.ggf.org". Agreed to use "www.ggf.org" for claim
    URIs.

  Action: Tom will update the schema and claim URIs

  Action: Andreas will send the correct claim URIs to Takuya


  - WSRF is going to OASIS standard sometime in February (unclear
    exactly when)
    - Is it worth waiting for it before proceeding with WSRF BP
      re-submission? Agreed that it depends on the timing. Hiro
      suggested that it may be ok to wait until GGF16 but not later.

  Action: Tom will will talk with Dave S about the timing and what
          changes might be required for the WSRF BP.

* January 2006 Interim minutes approval

  Action: Andreas to update F2F minutes as agreed for approvalo

** 1/16 am 

   - "Some states are optional" (add clarification that this
      does not apply for Events text, further down)
   - Approved with minor changes.

** 1/16 pm
   - Section titles for minutes should fit the document titles.
   - Hiro also would like to change the document titles and will put
     it on the agenda for a later call.
   - Approved with minor changes.

** 1/17 am - Approved with no changes

** 1/17 pm
   - WS-Man conclusion: Add that MS and Marty's group will wait and
     see
   - Delete the statement "WS-Agreement supersedes WS-Policy"
   - Approved with minor changes.

** 1/18 am - Approved with no changes

** 1/18 pm 
   - Change vote to 'straw poll' or "rough consensus"
   - "three requirement" are actually four
   - "Andrew lead" to "led"
   - Approved with minor changes.

** 1/19 am
   - ByteIO portion to change; postpone approval till next call
   - 'GSM' comment, addition:
     - Dave B: GSM does not use WSRF but will use OGSA (not yet)
     - Hiro to confirm details with Dave B
   - Metadata Catalogue question : add 'yes'
   - Approved with minor changes.

** 1/19 pm

   -  The name of one participant is mispelled (Spitz).
   -  Approved with minor changes.

** 1/20 am - Approved with no changes

* Other business

** Minutes often contain a lot of actions, but these are not monitored
   - For actions relating to documents they should be put in trackers
     [Note: Probably by Editor of document]

  - Other action items keep in a plain text list and use to draw up
    agendas, etc.

  - Minute taker agreed to format minutes with an actions section at
    the top but actions there will be copied from the body of the
    minutes and may lack full context (refer to body of minutes for
    details)

** GGF16, GGF17 and F2F Surveys

  - Reviewed results (6 people so far)

  - Agreed that OGSA should avoid sending emails to all related
    WGs. Send emails only to ogsa-wg-ml. Since chairs of fellow or
    related groups are on the ogsa ml they may choose to forward as
    needed to their respective groups.

** Postponed EMS discussion. 

   - Wed is a CDDLM joint call and the EMS discussion may be put on
     the agenda as well.
