OGSA Teleconference - 13 October 2004
=====================================

* Participants

  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jeffrin Von Reich (HP)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)
  
  Apologies: Chris Smith

  Minutes: Andreas Savva, Jem Treadwell

* OGSA F2F #9 update

  - Dates and location fixed: Dec 8-10, Washington D.C.
  http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2004/10/msg00017.html
  - Let Hiro know if you are not on the list and you are planning to
    attend.

  - Jay already booked IBM facilities: room, AV equipment. He is
    confirming the network arrangements, etc.
  - Location is about 28 miles from the national airport, 38 miles
    from Dulles.
  - Dial-in facilities are also planned.

  - Jay & Hiro will be sending more information, including exact
    location and hotel information.

  - Jay is also planning to ask Heather Kreger (WSDM) to attend and
    continue the OGSA-WSDM discussion: naming, modelling, etc. 

  - Bill has a conflict and probably cannot make this F2F.

* Teleconference minutes approval

  - Minutes for Sep 15, Sep 29 & Oct 6 approved with no changes

* OGSA Use Case tier1 document review

  [Background: OGSA Use Case tier-1 came out of public comment some
  time ago. The public comments were discussed in a previous
  teleconferences (July 14 & 28) and Jeffrin did the revisions agreed
  on. This review is to check the revisions and how ready the document
  is for re-submission to the GGF Editor.]

  References: 
  Public comment tracker: 
         http://forge.gridforum.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=411

  - Takuya was mistakenly added as the author of the Mutual
    Authorization use case. 
    - Changed to the correct contributor: Shawn Mullen
  - "Functional requirements for OGSA platform" comment: structure and
    relation of use cases to OGSA spec is unclear:
    - Added explanation on use case structure
    - Referring to appropriate OGSA spec version (014) for specific
      terminology
      - Changed reference to version 014 to "Version 1.0 Draft 14."
  - Changed "advanced reservation" to "advance reservation." Added
    explanation.
  - General requirements for workflow engine
    - Rejected; It is the UC author's decision to describe other
      aspects.
  - Change "enterprise" to "in-house": Rejected
  - "IT system integrator": rejected
  - Abstract rewritten to address clarity comment
  - Editorial: unify document formatting/reference/etc
    - Jeffrin did some work but focusing on content at the moment
    - Need to fix everything we notice; worried that there is quite a
      bit of work to do (and document seems to be using lots of
      different formatting styles).
    - Also possible unresolved references: 
      - global update and check for errors.
  - Minor english corrections
  - Service descriptions: added comment on interface definition
  - Comment on concept of 'discovery'
  - Workflow as grid service etc: It is already in the doc.
    - Compatible with semantic web is out of scope for the use case
      description.

  - VO explanation : add text

  - Not sure if one more review is needed
    - Proceed by email and review if Jeffrin/Jem/Hiro think it is
      necessary.
    - Hiro should put in a status check at the next call to check on
      progress

  - Longer term: 
    - EGR-RG to take over use cases. There is no need for OGSA-WG to
      find a new editor for the Use Case document.

  Action: Jeffrin do first pass and then send to Jem. Hiro will have
           it after that.

  Action: Jeffrin to reply to comments on public comment trackers.
           (Gridforge will automatically email the person who
           submitted the tracker; no need for a separate email.)

  Action: Andreas to send Jeffrin/Jem/Hiro the url to new GGF
          template. >Done.


* V1 comments review

  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/documen/ogsa-v1-public-comments/en/2

  - Reviewed Data section comments. Numbers correspond to rows
    in the spreadsheet.

  73: "Description of something existing..." 
      - Not clear if the comment refers to just the tense or something
        more?  Andreas to confirm.
      - Layered architecture not a functional requirement
        - Remove from section title and revise body text slightly (it
          is only mentioned in passing)
      - 'Virtualization' vs 'resource specific' interfaces
        - Add example and push rest of the work to v2

  74: Re-phrase or rewrite: schema is provided not by resource itself but
      by virtual source. If it is a needed term then put in glossary.

  75: Add example
  76: Formatting: ok
  77: Already agreed that this is v2 work.

  78: Compare with EMS revision when it is ready. Meanwhile DaveB to
      look adding some explanatory text to tie the figure better with
      the surrounding text.

  79: Rephrase to make clearer why it is a functional requirement
      (tackle together with 73).

  80: Transactions: 
      - Need to rephrase text to make clearer. It does not refer to
        specific services but rather to a requirement. (There are 2
        aspects: transaction used or provided by.)
      - Agreed that 'transactions' are not just a data requirement and
        we are not covering them sufficiently in v1. We are not at a
        stage we can make definitive statements.
      - Agreed to fix just 3.5.5.1 & 3.5.3.7 for this version and
        postpone more detailed work for v2.

      - Proposal to keep track of these topics: e.g., a what we do not
        do section.

  81: Reject: orthogonal.
      - Andreas to talk to Philipp to make sure we understood this
        comment correctly.

  82: Rephrase

  83: Add text

  84: Add text (Data services provide information or stimulus
      (trigger) but they don't do configuration).

* Glossary review

  - Mike checked the document for usage of
    choreography/orchestration/workflow.
    - Choreography: 1 instance
    - Orchestration: many instances
    - Workflow: many instances
    - All seem to talk about the same thing; with varying degrees of
      nuance. Might want to restrict the terms we use to just one of
      these.
    - Summarized the definitions in a document; sent to Jem.

  Action: Jem to send out email on this topic.

  [Restart comments review from Jem's doc):p2, c4)]

  - Choreography comment - Agreed that there is no need to define
    related terms such as "orchestrator" or "orchestratee." Reject.
  - DoS: Consensus that the current definition of DoS is adequate, and
    doesn't require change. Reject.
  - Comment on definition of "entity": Agreed to add example. 
    - Jem will add the sentence "For example, in OGSA an entity might
      be a resource or a service."
  - Event consumer/producer: The comment makes the assumption that we
    regard an event as a service. However, the subjects of these
    definitions are the producer and the consumer, which are defined
    here as being services. (While the Event definition does not say
    that event is a service.) We saw no reason to make
    changes. Reject.
  - Interface comment: Jem will preface the definition with "In a
    service-oriented architecture..." to restrict its scope.  We didn't
    understand the issue with the second part of the comment.
  - Port type: Jem will change port type to portType throughout to
    make the connection to the WSDL term more immediate.
  - Manageability: Agreed that the current definition could be
    improved, but we need to do it in line with CMM and with WSDM.
    Bill will make some suggestions.

* AOB

  - Agreed to do Glossary glossary review first, or at least as early
    in the call as possible, from next week to accomodate Jem's
    schedule.