======================================================================
ACS Teleconference 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: June 2 20:10-20:50 EDT 2005 / June 3 9:10-9:50 JST, 2005
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Sachiko Wada (ASCADE) - minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Wrap up for F2F
 - Review action items list and issues list

  AI-1: Sachiko, to post the proposed sequence for interaction with CDDLM.
     By next Monday.
  AI-2: All, to make comment on the sequence with CDDLM.
     After AI-1 done.   
  AI-3: Tom, to propose a name for ARI interfaces (functions)
     Waiting for the update from Tom.
  AI-4: Tom, to send a SDD hierarchy info to NAREGI PSE team.
     To be done.
     Additionally Keisuke sent a related paper in Japanese.
  AI-5: Tom, to ask David Martin about reference implementation.
     Waiting for the update from Tom.
  AI-6: All, to review the current draft of the ACS specification .
     If there are any comments, send e-mail to the ml, then we can start
     discussion for each item.
  AI-7: Mike, to make a research on authentication/authorization.
     Mike is going to get comments from another expert on this issue. 
     Will update at the next call.
  AI-8: Pete, to make a research on signature/integrity.
     Working.
  AI-9: Tom, to update the section of AAF in the current draft of the ACS spec.
     Waiting for the update from Tom.
  AI-10: Fukui, to send the request for two sessions in GGF14 by June 3.
     Done.
  AI-11: Fukui, to add "Clarify the requirements on version control" to the 
         issues list.
     Done.
     Mike's Comment: 
      Rollback capability may be implied but need not be required explicitly. 
      Co-existence of two or more versions should be allowed.
  AI-12: Fukui, to check the possibility of a joint session with CDDLM-WG 
         at GGF14.
     Done. (Dejan willingly accepted our offer)
  AI-13: Fukui, to register the reviewed draft of the ACS spec. by May 27.
     Done.

 Keisuke will register the AI and issues list to the gridforge document manager
 as a f2f output and to the tracker.

* Updates 
 - SDD TC call by KF.
   There was a telconf yesterday, and Tom was approved as a TC chair.
 
* GGF14 sessions
 - The latest information on the session slots is available at:
https://forge.gridforum.org/tracker/?func=detail&atid=557&aid=1482&group_id=100
https://forge.gridforum.org/tracker/?func=detail&atid=557&aid=1483&group_id=100

* Next call
 Date:  Jun 8 Mon 20:00 EDT/Jun 9 Tue 9:00 JST 
 Calling #: will be announced later  
