OGSA Teleconference - 24 April 2006
===================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva  (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* April 20 minutes approved with no changes

* Action review

  [Only items with updates are listed below]

  - Jay will ask Frank to summarize in a 1-2 pages what work exists and
    can be the base of new specifications. (This summary will be then
    reviewed by the group and decide whether that is the way to go.)
  
    Done (today's agenda)
  
  - Marvin to send e-mail that explains concerns on compliance suite
    by GGF & EGA.
  
    Hiro sent follow up email to Marvin.
  
  - Ellen will do a revised visio diagram that has only the
    relevant BES attributes and JSDL attributes (base it off
    the info_model_for_BES/BES Container class)
  
    Confirmed that there will be an update in time for this Thursday's
    call.
  
  - Andreas: to finalize OGSA WSRF BP 1.0 doc and make a final call
    
    In progress.
  
* Security

  Frank said there will be an AuthZ WG call tomorrow to discuss
  re-chartering and David Chadwick's documents.

  Discussed what kind of security work has already been done
  (implemented) and could become the basis of a new
  specification. Frank talked about a proposal for an authorization
  call-out WS interface that could end up as a GGF published
  specification:
  - This is a call-out from a security infrastructure (e.g., from a
    container in the case of Apache). In GT there is an internal API
    around the notion of a PDP and some PDPs are configured as call
    outs. These call-outs use a WS interface and SAML 1.1 at the
    moment.
  - The work plan would possible extent this authorization call out
    i/f and define a new WS protocol.

  ACTION: Frank to write up and send to the list a one page summary of
          the authorization call-out proposal before Thursday's call.

  The group will discuss the proposal on the list and either on the
  Thursday call or at a later teleconference. (Frank cannot make the
  Thursday call but if Jay is present he will explain it instead.)

* GGF17 session review

  Two sessions are planned: Information and EMS
  - There is no detailed agenda for either yet.
 
  - In the Information session the likely plan is to present the
    latest work as agreed at the last F2F (abstract view for job
    requirements matching) and connection of that work to JSDL and
    RSS.
  - Jay has sent a request to the JSDL-WG and RSS-WG chairs to get
    some time in those WGs sessions but has not received confirmations
    yet.
  
  ACTION: After confirming the agenda of this session, Hiro/Jay to
          send an invitation to those groups to also attend the
          Information Modeling session.
          - (And, possibly, to suggest continuing this discussion in
            those WG's sessions.)

  - For the EMS session a likely agenda is
    - Scenarios review (If Steven has a conflict Andreas may fill in.)
    - CDDLM and JSDL relationship
    - WS-Agreement discussion 
      - Jay suggested discussing how to use WS-Agreement (e.g., role
        and relation between WS-Agreement and JSDL) and to also invite
        people from GRAAP-WG. He said that an opinion he has heard
        often is that the framework described by WS-Agreement is
        interesting but it is not clear how to use it.
      - Hiro and Andreas mentioned that Business Grid and NAREGI use
        WS-Agreement in certain places. They'll look into getting some
        material for this discussion.
      - Andreas has seen a list of projects that use WS-Agreement and
        he will send it to Jay.

  - Another candidate topic for the EMS session is an ESI
    discussion. But the BES-WG has already started discussing the ESI
    paper and they seem to be making good progress. There was also a
    suggestion to do an ad hoc BoF. So it was agreed to encourage the
    idea of an ad hoc BoF instead of using time in the EMS session.

  - OGSA dinner: It's likely that there are other events planned for
    Wednesday and Thursday night (reception, chair appreciation). And
    some people may be leaving Friday. Hiro will confirm the schedule.

* Webcast update

  - Jem talked about the final preparations. The slides are ready but
    some minor revisions may still be made.

  - The webcast recording should be made available online a few days
    after the event, and definitely by GGF17.

