OGSA Teleconference - 8 March 2007 - Logistics
==============================================

* Participants

  Donal Fellows (UoM)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVA)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Steve McGough (IC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu) 
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Feb 26 minutes approved with no changes

* March F2F

** General update

  - Escort is needed in the Oracle building. Agreed to meet at 8:30am
    in the lobby and Chris K will escort the group to the meeting room.
  - Chris K's mobile is on wiki page for the F2F

** Agenda review

  - Confirmed all sessions
  - Agreed to switch Workflow and EMS sessiosn (Wed <-> Fri)
  - QoS session will be an open discussion
    - Andrew will write up a paragraph on SLA
  - Data Grid Usecase is likely to be shorter than the alloted time

* Sociology study 
  - No objections to the Researcher joining the F2F. 
  - The group may stop monitoring at any time.

* There will be no Monday call
