Notes taken by Philipp Wieder with additions from Wolfgang Ziegler

Session #1 (wrap-up session)
----------------------------

[please see slides on GridForge for details]

- Agenda
- Progress until GGF 16:
 * Mainly working on comments recieved for the WS-Agreement specification [Note: details below]
 * Current plan: WS-Agreement specification ready end May 2006
 * Use case document submitted for public comment [Note: see http://www.ggf.org/Public_Comment_Docs/Documents/Apr-2006/draft-ggf-graap-usagescenarios-03.pdf]

- Status of the WS-Agreement specification
 * 106 issues discussed after the last public comment period
 * All of them have been discussed, but not all decisions are currently reflected in the document
 * Status of the discussions reported in an excel sheet
 * Decision: New features will be addressed in the next version of the specification
 * One main issue: Re-introduction of the Expiration (Cancel) operation
 * Presentation of the issues and the respective discussion/resolution (Toshi)
 * Remaining things to do: Add of explanatory text to address the comments and check XSD/WSDL in the appendix for consistency
  + Discussion on the specification:
  + Question (Stephen): Decision made on breaking up the specification? - Answer (Toshi): Yes, it is not done at the moment due to the lack of time.
  + Note: There is a lot of stuff to be implemented to be interoperable (which may not be needed by many users). Maybe profiles are an option to solve this issue.
  + Discussion on iteroperability of WS-Agreement implementations: Task of GRAAP to define interop. requirements for WS-Agreement implementations, which would imply common terms. - [Action] Contact Interoperability BoF mailing list to get an idea of what other people are doing.
  + Suggestion: Ask people which kind of terms they need/would like to implement. Maybe organise a workshop at GGF to elaborate that.
  + It has been highlighted that the first priority currently is to make WS-Agreement a Proposed Recommendation since people wait for it before they commit to implement it.

- Next steps
 * Work on comments until end of May 2006
 * Final version & submission end of May 2006
 * Proposed Recommendation status June/July 2006
 * Implementations
 * Micro-specifications
 * Discussion:

  + Proposal from GGF 15 has been to implement an WS-Agreement server (using JSDL). This may be done by students at Fraunhofer SCAI.
  + Document on micro-specs and dissemination of the results from different implementations/projects is needed. Will help people to see what is out there instead of defining there own domain-spcific terms.
  + Workshop would be a good idea to bring the WS-Agreement community together and discuss micro-specs and other topics. Should be disseminated also outside the GRAAP mailing list. GGF 18 (together with Gridworld/Globusworld) might be a good place.
  + Also contact F. Travostino to get feedback from the IPsphere people from (to get more info what is needed from a network (provider) point of view.


session #2 (presentations on dynamic SLAs)
------------------------------------------

[please see slides on GridForge for details]

- Presentation (Omer Rana) - "Dynamic SLSa"
 * Guarantees and SLOs as ranges or functions
 * EU-Catnets project
 * WS-QoC
 * Discussion:
  + It would be good to record use cases for dynamic SLAs.
    (see the slides of GRAAP#3 with the results of the discussion)

- Presentation (Viktor Yarmolenko) - "Dynamic Agreements: A Function Based Approach to WS-Agreement"
 * Discussion on whether and, if yes, how functions should extend WS-Agreement
   (see the slides of GRAAP#3 with the results of the discussion)


session #3 (next steps & discussion)
------------------------------------

[please see slides on GridForge for details]

- Discussion of next steps
 * Use case document for dynamic SLAs
  + Contributions from Omer, Viktor, VIOLA project, (?) Cremona project (?)
  + GSA-RG template provided by Philipp [Note: Already done]
  + First version within three weeks after nGGF 17
  + Try to publish before GGF 18
 * Micro specs (long-term focus; topics with a name assigned are in focus first)
  + Domain-specific terms
   # Submission of computational jobs (most probably covered by JSDL 1.0)
   # Network (Wolgang, Franco Travostino, IPsphere forum)
   # Storage (GRIDCC probably, LUCIFER (in six months)
   # Access to data (no contributers currently, are there GGF WGs?)
   # Software licenses
   # Instruments like telescopes (GRIDCC use cases)
   # Advance reservation
   # Penalties (Asit (?), Heiko (?))
   # -> Probably derive XML schemata from CIM for part of the specs (like work done at FZJ)
  + Common domain-independent terms
   # E.g. start-time and duration
   # Advance reservation
 * Workshops on implementations & interoperability, Sept. 10 (the day before GGF 18)
  + Publish to GRAAP, European Grid projects, wg-all@ggf.org, Web Services mailing list (ask Heiko)
  + Submission of the workshop proposal within 14 days from now
  + No full paper, but two-page description; rather short but focussed presentation
  + Summary will be published and submitted to a conferences etc.
  + Draft invitation: Omer & Philipp
  + Ramin will check room
  + "Use cases" from Hiro's GGF 17 keynote?
    # Possible contribution to the Workshop: OGSA use cases as presented by Hiro in the keynote
 * Web space to collect & provide information on implementation & current practice
  + Should be located in GRAAP space at GridForge
  + New GridForge version should have Wiki and other functionality that supports collaborative work
    (probably before GGF 18)
 * Aggregation of agreements -> no time for discussion left
