OGSA Teleconference - Workflow - 26 March 2007
8AM Eastern to 9AM Eastern
=================================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto, Fujitsu
  Michel Drescher, Fujitsu
  Chris Kantarjiev, Oracle
  Michael Behrens, R2AD
  Mark Morgan, UVa
  Zkert

  Minutes: Behrens 

* Agenda Bashing

* Minutes Approval
  - Approved March 1st (https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14279)
  - Approved F2F session, without modifications (https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14317)

* Action Item Updates: 
    AI-0314c: closed. Feedback from Chris Smith next week
    AI-0314f: closed.


* Workflow Discussion
  - Discussed Use Case Templates...
  - No use cases ready for discussion.   Need workflow use-cases. Encourages off-line completion. 
  - New Action Item: Chris to take action for disseminating template example.

3) Geoffrey's e-mail discussion
  - General consensus that mashups do not matchup at the OGSA architecture level.  Seems orthogonal.
  - Mostly an application layer interaction.

Next workflow meeting:  April 16 (three weeks from now)
