OGSA Call: 27 March 2008

Attendance:
  Donal Fellows (note taker)
  Andrew Grimshaw
  Hiro Kishimoto (chair)
  Mark Morgan
  Steven Newhouse
  David Snelling
  Ellen Stokes

Minutes (Feb5, Feb17) approved

Action Items:
  Closed: artf6043
  Closed: artf6168
  Postponed: artf6169 (wait until after IEEE paper)
  Closed: artf6110
  Postponed: artf6121 (depends on other factors)
  Open: artf6171 (pending putting info on right wiki page)
  Closed: artf6172
  Closed: artf6170
  Closed: artf6173

Spec adoption workshop:
  no significant progress

Access paradigms community workshop planning (lead by SN):
  Templates
  Suragrid (sp?)
  Ellen: What about bringing input from EGR-RG?
         What about GLUE-WG? Can Sergio come?
  Tracks - 1) putting specs to use-cases
           2) do use-cases with specs and identify gaps
  Schedule report out: BP
  Chalkboards standing by!
  Detailed agenda depends on how many people coming; parallel
    sessions/breakouts not preferred
