Minutes, 19 November 2007
Minutes by Mark Morgan

Attendees
---------
	Hiro Kishimoto
	Jem Treadwell
	Duane Merrill
	Mark Morgan
	Andreas Savvas

* Likely final call in two weeks
* Discussion next week for final review
	- Hiro to read document this week
	- Need more volunteers to take a careful read of this document
* Duane to see if Blair can review them again
* Andreas to read them from a profile definition point of view
* Need to close all action items on the tracker
* Duane to put back into document 
	- section 2 "...as defined in the OGSA(r)..."
	_ Duane to change OGSA trademark to OGSA registered trademark and
		service mark
	- probably can copy from OGF template
	- glossary document has a good example

* Minutes Review
	- 1 November approved

* Action Item Review
	- Action Item 6071
		-- Closed
