Minutes of the OGSA-D telcon, 20th July 2007


* Roll call

Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)


* Glossary

Dave is revising the OGSA 1.5 document to bring it into line with the new data definitions.  There will be an OGSA telcon on Monday to discuss how to synchronise the release of the new OGSA Glossary document. 


* Architecture Document

Allen has review Mario's changes and accepted the minor ones.

Issues:

- The data federation section says that when creating a federation, you can specify the data access interfaces that will be provided.  Do we specify this?  Allen thinks we do in the data federation section.

- The data federation section also specifies that the data access interfaces should be able to say where the data is coming from.  This doesn't seem to be covered in the data access section.

- We need to be clear to what extent the description of a resource should be exposed.  We discussed this with particular regard to what we mean by the "capabilities" of a service - these can include those capabilities of a resource that are exposed via that service.

We reviewed and dealt with some comments in the document. 

Dave to review other items in the document and discuss with Allen.


* OGF21

Dave has requested a session for OGF21.


DONM: TBD



