=======================================================================
ACS Teleconference 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: Oct 19 20:10-21:40 EDT 2005 / Oct 20 9:10-10:40 JST, 2005
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Sachiko Wada (ASCADE) - minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Review of the proposed contents for section "3.3 Relationship
     to other activities". 
   Agreed to merge to the current draft.
   Detail discussion:
    - 3.3.1 OASIS SDD TC 
     Change the title of table 3-1 to "Relationship summary".
     (Done on the draft 0.54.)
    - 3.3.3 CDDLM WG
     Reset the footnote number for each page.
    - 3.3.4 OGSA Data WG 
     No comments.
    - 3.3.5 OASIS WSDM TC 
     Currently WSDM is preferred one, but ACS doesn't need to identify the
     manageability specification since it is separate from the interoperability
     for the ACS users. As a note, OGSA-WG is going to create new profile
     based on WS-Management in addition to the current one. OGSA WSRF Basic
     Profile doesn't mention to WSDM, either.
     Add words "such as OGSA profiles" to the following sentence.
     "the ACS specification leaves the manageability aspect to the standards
     set byexternal references".
     (Done on the draft 0.54.)

* Review of the proposed draft for the section "7.4 Signature"
    and the additional elements (or properties) for AA in the draft 0.53.
   In addition to newly proposed "7.4 Signature" section, AAF section has also
   changed so as to follow XML Signature standard.
   Proposed draft was agreed with no major comments.
   (Merged into the draft 0.54.)
 
* Review of the proposed draft for the chapter 1 and 2 in the draft 0.53.
    - Chapter 1. Introduction
     - Chapter 2. Requirements
   Review the chapter 1 line by line and modified if agreed.
   Due to time restriction, we could not go through chapter 2.
   Keisuke will merge the chapter 1 and 2, then everyone makes comments to it
   by next meeting on the ml.
   (Merged into the draft 0.54.)
   
* Resource properties
   Mike agreed to push his propsal with respect to resource properties 
   to future items.                ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^on

* Schedule toward the submission of the draft 
   The proposed schedule was agreed.

* Next meeting
   Date: Oct 26 Wed 20:00 EDT/Oct 27 Thu 9:00 JST 
   Calling #: will be announced later

