GSA-RG Minutes
OGF21, October 16, 2007
03:15pm - 4:45pm

Room: Amphitheatre
Attendance: about 20-25

Note-taker: Ramin Yahyapour

- Intro by Philipp Wieder
	+ Slides available on GridForge: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14824
	+ Scope of the RG

- Presentation by Alexander Papaspyrou
	+ Slides available on GridForge: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14825
	+  Q: what is needed for submission interface beyond DRMAA, BES?
		- The linkage between the different protocols is not clear.
		   Submission could be via DRMAA or BES.
		   A unified super-set for submission is necessary.
		   Could hide negotiation behind it.
		- BES/DRMAA does not sufficient for scheduling, just for submission/starting.
		
- Continuation Philipp
	+ Work towards interoperation
	+ JSDL subset for interoperablity to be decided by the partners with scheduler solutions.
	+ Proposal for Scheduling Description Language (SDL)?
		- Need for a new WG? RGs are not supposed to create specs.
		- Decision: Go for a BOF at OGF22
	+ Continuation of Grid scheduling requirements document?
                - Decision: Finalise it, typical members      
                  agree to spend the time. Necessary to kick everyone to actually do it. If no final draft until OGF 22, discontinue.
