OGSA Teleconference - 15 September 2004
=======================================

* Participants

  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Abdeslem Djaoui (RL)
  Ian Foster (ANL)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

* Agenda bashing

  - Decided to skip the Use Case document discussion since Jeffrin is
    unavailable.
    
* OGSA v1 public comments review

  - A number of comments submitted; many are editorial
  - Olegario sent to Jem a list of acronyms from the spec. noting the
    ones that are not explained in the glossary
    
  - It is good that people have read and commented in detail
  - No plan to change the document before GGF12
    - Will summarize the results at GGF12
    - Will then have to review in detail and reply/fix
    - And re-submit to the GGF Editor

  (Question regarding GGF Editor's role: Decide whether document can
            be published with input from GFSG. In principle could ask
            for extensive rework of the document.)

* Roadmap document review

  - Ian: changes looked reasonable. Did not notice any major changes.

  - One change was the removal of the sentence "However, OGSA-WG is
    not in the business of endorsing such activities ahead of time."
    - The people on that call were not clear what this meant: do we
      set standards or just set goals. The statement seemed to imply
      that OGSA does not set standards.
    - Ian's intention was to highlight the need for increased buy-in
      and that we cannot just dictate what is distributed computing to
      the industry.

  - The main issue is how to proceed from now to GGF12 and in
    particular whether we can add stuff to the document from now to
    GGF12.
 
  - Things that would be nice to add
    - Bar chart (spec rollout schedule)
      - Jay is working on doing a version based on the one from Mike's
        F2F presentation.. He will send it to Hiro when he is
        done.
    - Dependencies in final section

  - Probably no time to do this work before GGF12.
    - But the intention is to keep revising the document and add
      explanation
    - If we can get a revision in time then send to Stacey; current
      doc is already up.

  - Agreed to arrange for some time at GGF12 to discuss the roadmap
    - E.g., get some time in an existing session to discuss it
    - Jay has a conflict on Thursday
    - Second slot of EMS (Wed) is a possibility
      - Andrew, Ian, Jay, Hiro should be able to attend.
    - Hiro to add to the schedule.
    - In that session, rather than go through the document, do a
      presentation to explain thinking behind the current document

* GGF12 session schedule review

  - In the outreach session try to attract more people to the design
    team meetings by mentioning the different design teams and what
    they are working on and when they are meeting
    - Do this in the explanation of the v2 process

  - Dial in information has been added

  - Data team has a more detailed agenda (separate document)
    - Morning focusing on metadata; probably not limited to just
      metadata about data but also metadata about ogsa services in
      general.

  - EMS: Ravi to produce agenda

  - Information: 
    - Three parts: Introduction, Naming, Logging BoF
    - Introduction: Abdeslem to do the status review
    - Naming: (Andrew)
      - Not just a technical issue; need industry buy in to be successful
      - Need to work on fundamental issues and identify basic
        requirements
      - Jay will be attending, but the WSDM or WSN people (Bryan,
        William, etc) are not likely to attend GGF12.
      - Session time is also not teleconf friendly
    - Logging BoF ad-hoc as last item on agenda
      - Need minimum of 3 active entities
        - Have IBM, Hitachi and looking for the 3rd part
        - Bill has one more party in mind and is working to convince
          them to join.
      - Andrew knows of one more possibly interested party; will send
        Bill details.

  - Hiro to put roadmap discussion in one of the two sessions:
     - EMS design team #2; or
     - Self-mgmt

  - Security
     - Options to name an EPR and what are the consequences of doing
       so. E.g., put policy on it, communicate preference, etc.
     - Take a specific example and work through it
     - Obviously related to naming
     - Andrew to do an SGNP presentation (20-30 minutes) 
     - Frank+Takuya to discuss their position paper (accepted to W3C
       workshop)
     
  - A number of related activities (workshops, bofs etc) are on the
    spread sheet.

* AI review

  - Andrew's action to add an 8th question:
    - Changed to modifying question 4 to explicitly state OGSA; 
    - Also has sparked a discussion on what flaship architecture means
      and how GGF should re-organize itself.
    - Subject of discussion on Sunday's GFSG meeting

  - Event sub-group seems not to have started yet; waiting to see how
    we can get involved.
    - Event schema; WS-N based
    - Need to feed in requirements; Abdeslem also wants to be involved
      in this discussion

  - AR notes: followup at GGF12

  - MDS representative: no update.

  - Core design team: Discussed today. Will meet during a GGF12
    design.