OGSA Telecon, 19 December 2005
---------------------------------------------------

Attendees
---------------
	Mark Morgan (Minutes)
	Allen Luniewski
	Hiro Kishimoto
	Andrew Grimshaw
	Darren Pulsipher
	Dave Berry
	Jem Treadwell
	Jay Unger
	Fred Maciel
	Bob Cowles
	Takuya Mori
	Mike Behrens
	Tom Maguire

Agenda
-----------
	Note Taker Assignment (Mark Morgan)
	14 Dec. 2005 Approval
		-- Approved as is
	Agenda Bashing
		OGSA AuthZ
		Basic Security Definitions
			-- Not ready
			-- Skip for today
		Naming Requirement Discussion
		Jan F2F and GGF 16 Update
		Others?
			-- Andrew would like to very briefly update people on interop meeting from UK last week

* OGSA AuthZ
	- Status
		-- Various meetings
		-- Number of people trying to do outreach
		-- Charges
			--- Increase particitpation list
			--- Begin technical discussions
			--- Start exploring these things in a standard forum
		-- WRT Increasing Participant list
			--- Sent out invite for this telecon
			--- Lots of personal 1 on 1 conversations
			--- Would be helpful for Hiro to directly email people about things
		We need to get buy in from OGSA process (not final agreement, just participation)
		Technical work
			--- Should there be fixed schema?
				--- Higher education wants a specific set of attributes which they have lumped into EduPerson.
					---- Quite specific to education
					---- They are using essentially attribute based authorization.
					---- VOM Server
					---- Has anyone tested whether or not attributed based security will fly in industry
		Bob to provide Hiro with a list of people to invite to AuthZ meetings.
		Also to provide agenda items for Jan F2F...should have continuing discussions in Jan. and Feb.

* London Interop Fest Report.

* Naming Report
	- What is the status of the document
		-- Andrew to make sure that current document on grid forge gets updates with the notes from the telecon on the 9th of Dec (after holiday)
	- What is topic for naming session at F2F?
		-- Not too much time on WS-Naming
		-- More time for RNS and RNS-lite
	- RNS-lite MIGHT be the next product of the naming group, but we don't want to stomp on the GFS group.
	- RNS-lite is OGSA-DAI naming requirement?
		-- Andrew can't comment on that.
		-- OGSA-DAI naming requirements (Andrew and Mark to look at).

* January F2F
* GGF 16
	-- Hiro filed two session requests
		-- One for outreach
	-- What's the propper way of doing a town hall
		-- Say a few introducory things
		-- Then let people respond
		-- Feel their pain and try to get them to participate in the process.
		-- May want to spend a little time at the F2F to decide what to discuss at the town hall.
			--- Jay to head up this session.
	-- Who should we invite to a town hall
		-- Big Vendors and Software Developers
	-- F2F at GGF (Ellen has room in Athens but no network).  Hiro is talking to University folks
		-- For Friday
