OGSA-WG conference call
=======================

26 April 2007

<===== SLOT 2 =====>

Participants
------------
Donal Fellows, UoM
Steve McGOugh, IC
Andreas Savva, Fujitsu
Fabio Benedetti, IBM
ZKert
Hiro Kishimoto, Fujitsu
Michel Drescher, Fujitsu
Ravi Subramaniam, Intel

Minutes: Michel Drescher

<** Action Item summary from this call **>
AI-0426a: Andreas to fill out the Use Case template for the very simple
          JSDL use case
AI-0426b: Fabio to provide IBM's use case for workflows to the group 
          on the wiki
AI-0426c: Steve MCough to complete the Wiki with the OMII use case
AI-0426d: Steve and Michel to ask Bill Nitzberg in more details about
          Altairs workflow use case
AI-0426e: Steve/Michel to ask Chris Smith to come to the OGF20 OGSA 
          workflow session


Early discussion
----------------
- The call attendees reaches quorum.
- Michel takes minutes
- No new agenda poposals except Michel's mail on the OGSA-ML

Workflow
--------
- Minutes approval
  -- 27 March 2007: approved without changes
  -- 19 April 2007 (informal): approved without changes
- Action item review
  -- AI-0314d: Andrew not on the call
               Andreas forwarded the mail summarising his discussion with 
			   Bill Nitzberg, Altair, to the OGSA-ML
			   ==> action closed
  -- AI-0314e: Steve talked to OMII
               OMII prefers to adopt a preexisting workflow, such as BPEL, 
			   and mixes them with existing OGF specifications OMII 
			   proposes th totally evaluate BPEL before drafting our own
			   language.
			   ==> action closed
- Agenda for OGF20
  -- session owners (Chris, Steve, Michel) to update the agenda of OGF20 
     and adjacent F2F
- Current status of workflow use cases
  -- The group discusses the status of the current use case submissions
  -- AI-0426a: Andreas to fill out the Use Case template for the very simple
               JSDL use case
  -- Fabio mentions that the OASIS TC that governs the BPEL process focuses on
     orchestration rather workflow(?)
  -- AI-0426b: Fabio to provide IBM's use case for workflows to the group 
               on the wiki
  -- AI-0426c: Steve MCough to complete the Wiki with the OMII use case
- Use cases review
  -- Altair use case:
     --- Bill is a board member, so he'll be at OGF20
	 --- AI-0426d: Steve and Michel to ask Bill Nitzberg in more details about
	               Altairs workflow use case
  -- Platform use case:
	 --- AI-0426e: Steve/Michel to ask Chris Smith to come to the OGF20 OGSA 
	               workflow session
  -- AI-0426f: Steve/Michel to invite the Workflow Management RG to the OGSA 
               workflow session
  -- UNICORE:
     --- While discussing the UNICORE use case the group agrees to try to add 
	     a separation of workflow semantics (i.e. what is to be accomplished)
		 and description (i.e. how this is put into a document) to the use case
		 documents
- Ravi asks whether the group is planning to introduce modifications to JSDL 
  or not
  -- Yes and no - track on of the workflow design team is expected to not 
     modify JSDL, but track two expects to probably *extend* JSDL to support
	 workflows.
- The group discusses possible future paths of the design team work and
  technologies, e.g. JSDL pre and post conditions
- Ravi asks which concrete workflows track one is currently investigating
  -- At the moment this would only be BPEL as it deems the most stable and
     passable workflow language

Any other business
------------------
- Next week is Japanese national holiday, so *no calls* next week, neither
  Monday nor Thursday
- Hiro launched a Zoomerang on the Summer OGF F2F.
  -- So far only four people answered
  -- Hiro encourages the group to answer the Zoomerang
