OGSA Teleconference - 28 February 2005
======================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* GGF13 update

  - Hiro will add the dial-in number to the GGF13 sheet
  - ByteIO BoF is at the same time as the Basic Profile review
    (session #2 conflicts #11)
  - BES BoF conflicts with Data architecture (session #8 conflicts
    with #12)
    - Andrew is therefore double booked; he will probably be in BES.
  - #3: Probably do this as a BoF as agreed at the February F2F. The
         proposed group is probably in the Architecture Area so Andrew
         is the AD.
       - Andrew to arrange logistics
       - Also contact Manuel to find out if he'll be attending GGF13
         (Confirmed attendance during the call)
  - #4: No draft document. Not sure how advanced things will be but will
        prepare for a discussion. Maybe an open-floor session without
        long presentations
  - #5: No draft document.
  - #6: Basic profile: Was naming and security pulled out? If so how
        far does this session cover.
         - Naming: probably everything relating to ws-addressing goes
           to another (naming) profile. (Something to discuss later.)
         - Security: not sure whether taking it out completely is good
           or not. Security is something to 'bake-in' to every
           spec. Tom and Dave decided to keep the current text in the
           BP and revisit this issue later.
  - #9: - What is the intended outcome of this session?
        - It's not clear whether this is a discussion/educational
          session or not, or how things will fit together. More likely
          a discussion, exploration style session.
        - Is there a list of standards? Or is there any consensus on
          what the architecture needs? (model driven)
        - OGSA version 1.0 has a resource management section but the
          ideas have not been applied consistently throughout. (Which
          entities are resources and which are not. What does that
          mean in each case, and is the treatment consistent and so
          on.)
          - Part of the work is in the EM/data design teams; with
            some/other work in the RM team.
        - Fred is working to bring things together for this session
        - (Need traceability of requirements back to OGSA version 1.)

  - Gaps in profiles and how to address them
    - A side-discussion from the EM profile discussion. 
    - What to do with such gaps?
      - If something is really missing and it is needed
         - Ask the spec owners to fill it in (or find owners)
         - Fill it in the profile (assuming a relatively small and
           easily bounded gap)

  - Deliverables review
    - Three docs submitted so far
    - Two more from the original list remain to be submited: Data and
      Roadmap
      - Roadmap
        - Ian is working on the Roadmap.  Hiro will check the status
          with him.
        - Agreed that the draft should go through a group review first
          before sending it to Stacey. 
     - Data
       - Ask DaveB. (Hiro)

  - Visa for Korea:
    - [If you are unsure contact the nearest Korean embassy.]
    - A tourist visa should not be used if you are travelling for
      business.
    - Information on how strict Korean Immigration is varies.
    - Jay has more details from the Korean embassy. Email him if you
      need it.

* EM refactoring doc (20050228)

  [Posted to gridforge after the call
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/ogsa-ems/en/2]

  - Fig. 2 :  business process/ workflow / ... / tasklet 
    - Trying to describe the scope of area (so includes business
      process to tasklet)
    - Including business process here might raise concerns since there
      is a lot of work outside the grid on this.
  - Clarified that the intention is not the modelling of the business
    process but what is needed in the environemnt to support its
    execution.

  - Terminology issue: Should these terms be used (clearly overloaded)
    or should different terms be used (ref: Terms proposed by Andrew &
    Mark)

  - Fig 3 (demand - supply)
    - Added "execution plane" and "control plane"
      - Control plane 'controls' execution/provisioning activity
      - Trying to draw out similarity with other capabilities, e.g.,
        data
    - Resource model would be part of a Resource Management framework

  - The group is working from both ends but there is a large gap
    between the lower level work (leading to a profile) and work at
    this level.
    - Obviously the situation is not ideal. It is a balance between
      the desire to do something that will last vs not being able to
      achieve anything within this year (and taking on the risk of
      some re-work later on)
    - A concern raised is whether there is really an incremental path
      to fill the space or not.

  - BES focus is 'job focus' ('work push'). Ravi also wants to have
    the opposite perspective of a resource 'pulling' a job ('work
    pull') included.
    - Could be done as extension to the current proposal at a later
      point (in any case it is not precluded)
    - OGSA EM v1 identified some core functionality; BES focuses on
      the simplest function within that picture. The expectation is
      that there will be a build-up from that base to do other
      functionality at a later stage. (E.g., CSG)

  - Next steps?
    - CSG is one likely candidate
    - To try and define CSG the following would also be needed:
      - How jobs describe resources (e.g., JSDL)
      - How resources describe themselves     
      - And also have to 'unify' across capabilities (Ravi)
      - Jay argued that this is 'not a unification' but a 'relation'.
        - Model of how to manage data as data (can be used by the
          manager)
        - And a view/facet of that model that can be projected or
          used by the CSG
          - This view does not need to be the same as the manager's;
            only what is required by the CSG
    - Agreed that this is a good topic to discuss at the EM
      architecture session. Ravi to prepare for kicking off this
      discussion.

* BES BoF preparation

  - Andrew, Mark, Steve have had a short call on logistics (who will
    present, etc)

  - Andrew to send out draft answers to the 7 questions

  - Steven will send out revised version of the draft API document
    (but refinement of this document is not the main focus of
    activities at the moment)

  - Will review these again before GGF13 (probably Mon Mar 7)
             
* AOB

** Resource Management followup

  - Fred is working on a concrete proposal on how to proceed:
    - Resource modelling has to be done by both sides at the same
      time. The two sides being the capability (e.g., EM, Data) and
      the resource modelers (e.g., straight with the DMTF via the
      resource management team)
    - A draft document is nearly ready and will be distributed soon.
    - The CGS-WG co-chair, Tom Rooney, is also interested and is getting
      involved in this activity.
        
** BP review postponed for next call
