OGSA Teleconference - 11 June 2007 - Glossary
=============================================

* Participants

  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  ZackK

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of new Actions

  AI-0611a: Jem/Hiro will add to the agenda of the next Glossary call
            a discussion on how to publish the Glossary document

   AI-0611b: Jem will ask Donal F and Dave S to review the definition
             of 'state' and finalize it

   AI-0611c: Jem will ask the RM-WG chairs to consider the 'pool' term
             as part of their glossary

   AI-0611d: Jem will talk with Dave B on how to proceed with the Data
             terms and report back on the next call

   AI-0611e: Hiro will add to the next Roadmap call agenda a discussion
            on the relation of OGSA and Reference Model; and whether
            to include a description of that relation in the Roadmap.

* Minutes approved with no changes
  - Mar. 1: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14272
  - Apr. 12: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14399
  - OGF20 F2F: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14536  

* Review of Manchester discussion

  Reviewed slides from the Manchester F2F and conclusions

  - There is an open issue on how (or if) to publish the glossary
    separately. It is not urgent issue and it was agreed to postpone
    the discussion for the next call

  AI-0611a: Jem/Hiro will add to the agenda of the next Glossary call
            a discussion on how to publish the Glossary document

** 'state' definition 

   The definition worked on at the F2F was unfortunately lost. Jem has
   tried to reconstruct it based on the minutes.
   - Discussed meaning of 'interesting' again. But decided not to make
     any significant changes

   AI-0611b: Jem will ask Donal F and Dave S to review the definition
             of 'state' and finalize it

* Glossary discussion

** Michael B suggested 'Transparency' as a potential term to discuss
   in the future.

** Network element: Reviewed Architecture document and confirmed that
   this term is not used. Agreed to drop.

** Pool: Reviewed the Architecture document and confirmed that this
   term is used.  But its meaning is close to that of its dictionary
   definition; while the reference model seems to be making finer
   distinctions.

   Agreed to drop from the Glossary and instead ask the RM-WG to
   consider this term as part of their glossary.

   AI-0611c: Jem will ask the RM-WG chairs to consider the 'pool' term
             as part of their glossary

** Data terms

   New proposed terms and definitions have been received from the OGSA
   Data WG. The Glossary so far had only the definition for Data
   Resource. This term is updated. A number of new terms are added.

   Agreed that most of the proposed additions are probably not needed
   in the general OGSA Glossary; they are typically used with their
   dictionary meaning. They may be appropriate for the Data Glossary.
   - Examples are source, sink, etc

   Also since the Glossary is paired with the Architecture document it
   is important to see how the Data WG is planning to update that
   section. Hiro suggested that updates of the Data terms should be
   synchronized with the publication of the Data Architecture
   document.

   AI-0611d: Jem will talk with Dave B on how to proceed with the Data
             terms and report back on the next call

* Other discussion

  The Reference Model is not OGSA specific but the relation to OGSA is
  probably worth discussing in the Roadmap.

  AI-0611e: Hiro will add to the next Roadmap call agenda a discussion
            on the relation of OGSA and Reference Model; and whether
            to include a description of that relation in the Roadmap.

