

Minutes of OGSA-WG meeting teleconference -  12/june/2003
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Participants: Andreas Savva ; Hiro Kishimoto ; Takuya Araki ; Ian Foster ; 
Benny Rochwerger; Dennis Gannon ; Ravi Subramaniam; David E. Martin; 
David Snelling; Fred Maciel ; CH Hariharan;  Jeffrin J.Von Reich;  


*  OGSA use case doc has been submitted. 

*  OGSA platform document is still being edited wrt CMM-WG 

*  CMM-WG has been formally formed at last. mailing list is not operational
	 yet. Since CMM is under OGSA umbrella, in GGF8 OGSA session we will
	 take 2 minutes to mention the CMM meeting later. 

*  Session on OGSI Implementations at GGF8. This will raise some very 
	interesting issues that OGSA will have to deal with ( like 
	interoperability). 

*  The service developer workshop at GGF9 will tackle the issue of 
	how to bring about reasonably well defined grid services. This is 
	not only related to grid services interoperability, but more.
	For e.g:  there is the other bigger problem of compliance. The 
	workshop is to explore ideas and share ideas. Its not a standards 
	activity. An outcome of the workshop process could be to have a
	collection of papers or a document that can be a best practices
	 document. This might bring in a new way of thinking or a design 
	process (not like programming models we have seen before). 

* At GGF8 two workshops are - application area workshop, and another one is
	 about solving management issues. Dennis will send the details. Any
	 workshop on workflow is about such a huge topic with many players, 
	that it might be too premature for now. Probably in GGF10. 

* Use cases to be finished - Ravis use case and Dennis updated storm use
	 case are still getting updated ( maybe next week we can finish it ). 

* Any comments on GGF8 use case document - please sent to Hiro.

* The distinction of functions and services are confusing. In the Use case
	 matrix as well as in the platform document. A possible  hierarchy is
	 Function is highlevel - service next level and then porttype 
	detailing the implementation as the last level. This is one of
	the things for the GGF9 workshop and before that in discussions about
	platform document. Some of 'pink' functions in the use case matrix is
	not correctly represented in the platform document - for example
	'Encryption' which is not part of security or OGSA docs.  This
	confusion between Functions, porttypes, services, mechanisms etc need
	to be defined  clearly. This needs to be discussed as part of next
	version of platfrom doc since this is a very fundemental issue. 
	The use case authors need to be comfortable with what functions 
	they need from a requirement perspective.

* A series of calls to be started to discuss this issue. If there is a
	document sharing methodology we can bring that in too. We can start
	of with Hiros matrix as a base point for discussions. 

* Abstractions and patterns of use cases have not been identified yet. 
	We probably need someone to look at this 
	in more detail after doing some analysis of the matrix . Everyone is
	free to analyse and raise comments about this. 

* Next thursday - same time there will be another meeting. 

* GGF8 agenda is fairly set now. Hiro and co. can work on slides that
	show the matrix content. Only one person presents the use cases in
	GGF8 but gives credit to the use case donor.

* the external phone for GGF8, OGSA meeting is to be made known yet. (who
	is responsible ?)

* The slide template for use cases is still the existing one. all use cases
	 will be represented in the same template. 


best rgds,
Jeffrin J. Von Reich

