Minutes for the OGSA Data WG telcon, 18th May 2005

0) Actions Arising

- Dave to approach transaction RG re GGF session?
- Peter to write a first cut at the Storage section of the architecture document.
- Dave to try to arrange data transfer discussion
- Allen to cut and paste material into document before F2F.
- Dave to forward final meeting info.
- Dave to mail round draft agenda.

1) Early discussion
      Note taker assignment: Dave
      Roll call 
Dave Berry, NeSC
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Ann Chervenak, ISI
Fred Maciel, Hitachi
Stephen Davey, NeSC
Neil Chue Hong, EPCC
Susan Malaika, IBM
Allen Luniewski, IBM

Minutes approval (attached, http://tinyurl.com/b4qxv)
Agenda bashing

2) Action report 

- Dave & Allen to add GGF working drafts to agenda for May 18 call
[Done]
- Dave & Allen to finalize session plan at May 18 call and send in
session requests ASAP after that.  [Done in this meeting].
- Dave & Allen to make F2F agenda discussion to be part of the May 18
call [Done]
- Dave & Allen to publish approximate start and end times for the F2F
ASAP to allow people to finalize travel plans.  [Now done] 
- Dave & Allen to make sure the F2F on May 26 should include a session
to discuss how to identify data and how to get the bits into and out of
storage.  [See agenda below]
- Peter to write a first cut at the Storage section of the architecture
document. [Ongoing]
- Dave to try to arrange data transfer discussion. [Ongoing]
- Mario to further update the access section. [Done]
- Dave to approach transaction RG re GGF session?  [Ongoing]

3) Document status

- Reports from contributors

Overview - No update
Metadata - Simon says he will try and write something.  Dave to ask?
Data Transfer - No progress
Data Access - Mario has updated and sent to Susan for comment.  Still needs more work.  It would be useful to have an update on the ByteIO section.
Data Storage - Peter is working on it.
Replication - Draft available.  Good enough for the moment?
Federation - unchanged.  Good enough for the moment?


4) WG status (15 min)

- GGF working drafts
We will submit the document in its "current" state as of next week with a warning on cover page.  We will then refresh this before GGF if necessary.
Allen to cut and paste material into final document before submission.

- GGF session plan

- General outreach?   Definitely
- Transaction RG?  Dave to contact
- Data Transfer

Don't overlap with:
OGSA outreach session
OGSA naming session
OGSA WSDM sessions
OGSA security
OGSA final session 

Dave to mail GGF.

5) F2F agenda 

Allen to paste material together into the document this week so that people can have a look at it before the F2F.

- ByteIO (2 hours)

- Short presentations about each section, identifying questions for relating to other sections.  (1 hour)

- Data transfer (1 hour)

- Data access (1 hour)

- How to identify data and how to get the bits into and out of storage (1 hour)

- Overview section (1 hour)

- Cross-cutting themes (1 hour)

- Wrap-up and futures (30 minutes)

Dave to mail round this draft.

Allen asked how to address security, policy management, naming?  Dave suggested that he presents them to the OGSA WG at Tuesday's F2F.  Allen clarified his question: each part of the data architecture may have particular concerns.
E.g. Replication: do security tokens get replicated?
     Storage: security for backup?
     Access: in some environments a query may be forbidden depending on earlier queries (e.g. finding too much aggregate information).


6) Wrap up

Dave to forward final meeting info.
Allen requested people to put F2F presentations on web site.
Minutes would also be desirable.

DONM:   F2F Next week.  Telcon week after.
