Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, 20th December 2006

1) Early discussion:
 
Roll call:
        Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
        Dave Berry, NeSC (Note Taker)
        Allen Luniewski, IBM
        Stephen Davey, NeSC

           
Minutes from December 8th call were approved. 
 

2) Action report

Completed actions

- Group to discuss Alex Sim's response about data transfer.
- Stephen & Dave to review scenarios doc from a storage perspective.

New actions

- Stephen to put new version of scenarios document on GridForge
- Allen to reorganise documents on GridForge
- Allen to add some suggested properties to the Data Transfer chapter of the Architecture document
- Allen to add a note saying that the create data transfer operation should check that there is sufficient space on the sink and possibly request more if possible.


Ongoing actions:

- Mario to flesh out discussion of structured and unstructured data access in the new section 7 and to rewrite the appendix to show the mapping.
- Chris to send out second draft of GFS scenario.
- Dave to create or reuse scenario slides for main OGSA slide set.
- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)
- Stephen to recheck/update scenarios document following F2F discussions

Sections in architecture document to be edited (plus appropriate bits to be put in appendix 3):
	Overview (section 2) - Dave
	Data Access – DAIS - Mario
	Data Access – ByteIO - Mario
	Data Description – Dave
	Cache Services – Dave
	Metadata Catalogues – Dave
 	Appendix 1 listing specs – already done?
	Appendix 2 summary of general interfaces – to be completed in final draft?
	Appendix 3 mappings to specs – to be completed in final draft?
- What about asynchronous operations and aborting requests? (Dave) (Suspend/Resume/Abort Request)


3) Progress Report.

Stephen and Dave have reviewed the scenarios document from a storage perspective.  Stephen is incorporating the changes into a new version.

Mario has done more work on the architecture document.


4) Alex Sim's response about data transfer.

POint 1 - The WS-Names are provided from elsewhere in the architecture.

Point 2 - Allen to add some suggested properties.

Point 3 - Allen to add a note saying that the create data transfer operation should check that there is sufficient space on the sink and possibly request more if possible.


5) Discussion of Mario's updates to Architecture Document

- Allen to merge latest version from Mario and put on GridForge, excluding security changes.
- Dave & Allen to comment on Data Access section of Architecture document


6) DONM.

Friday, 5th January.