Minutes for the OGSA Data WG telcon, February 8th 2006

New Actions:

- Dave to forward old message about interface description.
- Dave to mail Reagan re SRB.

Ongoing Actions:

- Dave to raise the question of URIs for data formats (etc) at the GGF16 data area meeting.
- Stephen to add a paragraph to the architecture document about reasons for naming, if still needed after Allen's revisions. 
- Stephen to add interface names to the scenario diagrams.
- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.
- Neil to update the ByteIO subsection.
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections.
- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.
- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation. 


1) Early discussion

* Roll call 
Dave Berry, NeSC
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Stephen Davey, NeSC
Chris Jordan, SDSC

The minutes were approved.

The agenda was agreed as below


2) Action report

- Dave to raise the question of URIs for data formats (etc) at the GGF16 data area meeting.
- Dave to mail Jem re the entry for data federation in the OGSA v1.5 glossary [Done]
- Dave to update "big picture" diagram and include in revised OGSA 1.5 document [Done]
- Stephen to revise diagrams for storage scenarios [Done]

- Stephen to add a paragraph to the architecture document about reasons for naming, if still needed after Allen's revisions. 
- Allen to work on an integration pass, including a scoping section, and send the revised version to the list for immediate comment. [Done]
- Stephen to add interface names to the scenario diagrams.
- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.
- Mario to arrange update of the ByteIO subsection. [Neil has agreed to do it]
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections.
- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.
- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation. 



3) Progress & planning update 

Allen has done of the integration pass.  Interface descriptions need to be fleshed out.

We will attend the GFS session at GGF next week.

Our first session at GGF: Present the slide set that we gave to OGSA, and the diagrams from the Scenarios diagrams.

Our second session at GGF: Dave to invite GSM.  Go through storage scenarios, add details about interfaces.    


4) Comments on the Architecture

Dave to forward old message about interface description.

Title page: there are three dates, and the "revised" date in the header is automatically updated.

Order of authors.  Need to check with IBM staff that publication is approved?  Allen is OK.  Allen to check with Simon.

OGSA is a trademark.

Acknowledgements should go to the end.

Allen to create tracker artefacts for "open issues" #3, 6, 7, 8, 9 on pages 3-4.

Dave to mail Reagan re SRB.

Scope: exclude sessions?

Correct headings in section 3.8, and section 5.

Section 5.1: remove sentence about data containers.

Maybe remove 5.1.3
 
Allen requested people to pay particular attention to the new section 6.

We should consider where to discuss access patterns and 3rd-party transfer.

Move all references to the end section.


5) Wrap up

Next meetings:

Feb 13th-16th:	GGF16 in Athens


