OGSA Teleconference - 9 April 2007 - Security
=============================================

* Participants

  Andrew Grimshaw (UVA)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Nate Klingenstein (Internet2)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Duane Merrill (UVA)
  Mark Morgan (UVA)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Alan Sill (TTU)
  ZackK

  Minutes: Alan Sill (minor changes: Andreas Savva)

* Summary of New Actions

AI-0409a: Duane will produce a next version of the use case
           documents; prioritizing the use cases, including pointing
           out which ones cannot be addressed with the state of the
           art

AI-0409b: Liberty spec statements on EPRs (compatibility or intent
           vs OGSA BSP) should be checked; are these true and is there
           some difference in interpretation that is unresolvable?
           - Duane will do an initial review to be discussed on the
             April 23 teleconference

AI-0409c: Strawman version of Express Profile (currently called
           "Recommendations for OGSA SOAP Usage") should be complete
           by OGF-20 (Andrew).  
           - Document should be put into GridForge (Duane, Mark).

* Previous Action Item review

**  AI-0315a: Andrew et al to develop Express Authentication
                  Profile, HPC Profile (Andrew to talk to them), Frank
                  (review), Michel Drescher (Unicore), (Steve McGough)
                  GridSam,

   Marty Humphrey and Frank Siebenlist have agreed to look at the
   respective profiles as above.  Michel Drescher has agreed to
   contact people in the UK and Unicore folks.  This action item is
   still open and other use cases are still recruited.

** AI-0315b: Andrew to contact GIN (Erwin Laurie) about existing
                (delegation free) use cases.

  In progress. The intent of the use case document to be discussed on
  this call is to then solicit further feedback from Erwin, etc.

* Use case review.
      UVA team will post a use case document.

Andrew reviewed results of F2F meeting in California, which were that
the profile development was considered to be a good idea, but that use
cases should come first; therefore a set of use cases as partially
discussed above are being recruited.

The UVA use case summary document was presented.  This document
attempts to cover the characteristics of scenarios that have emerged
from different considerations.  The focus here is on scenarios that
may be critical, with an attempt to abstract general characteristics
that may be considered fundamental.  In addition, rather than being a
laundry list of technologies related to authentication, authorization
and security, there is a desire to focus on summarizing methods that
have particular relevance to application in grid architectures.

Nate asked whether these are use cases for development or for  
documenting patterns of use in the community.  Andrew responded that  
the latter was the goal, and in particular they have attempted to  
abstract the general characteristics of these use cases.  He gave the  
example of staging a job via a BES container, desiring to transmit  
credentials for this purpose.  Talking to a broker on behalf of the  
user may be a particular use case; it may be the case that multiple  
credentials will be required, and this flow should be documented to  
understand the characteristics of the use case.

Alan commented that the existence of control points in the
authentication and authorization flow is important to many virtual
organizations, or more generally to the case in which the use of grids
crosses organizational boundaries.

Advertising of identity in EPRs and the communication patterns
associated with them is another example of the generalizations sought
in this document, according to Duane.  These scenarios would suggest
mechanisms for the use of identity, but are not intended to specify
them at this stage.

Nate and Alan discussed IdP's in Shibboleth, VOMS, etc.  The example
in which Shibboleth signed assertions using SAML can be used to
communicate identity verification for association of an individual
with a university was discussed, along with that of X.509-based
extended attribute certificates as used now by virtual organization
VOMS servers.  Andrew mentioned the need for a service to be able to
advertise the options that it supports.  Alan wanted this to be
extended to be able to allow the service to verify the identity of any
attribute providers along the chain.

Nate mentioned the Liberty Alliance EPR approach, which appears to be
incompatible with the OGSA-WG approach up to now.  Duane and Andrew
have looked at this, and conclude that the EPR usage appears to be for
different purposes between the two examples; it is not clear that the
Liberty one is WS-Naming compliant, for example.

Andrew summarized the above by saying that the listed abstractions
should be prioritized and sorted according to importance and
practicality (the delegation and multiple-provider problems may not be
solvable immediately, for example, using existing specs, so the
document should take this into account).  The comments about
applicability to and particular needs of grid usage should be
sharpened, taking into account the comments above, and then the
document should be compared back against the original use cases from
which they were derived.  Nate commented that there is essentially no
installed user base for Liberty at present, so this may not be an
issue.  Andrew and Nate will communicate about this.

Nate asked whether a strawman version of the Express Profile will be
available at OGF-20.  Andrew replied that this is a goal, and the
topic will be taken up then.

AI-0409a: Duane will produce a next version of the use case
           documents; prioritizing the use cases, including pointing
           out which ones cannot be addressed with the state of the
           art

AI-0409b: Liberty spec statements on EPRs (compatibility or intent
           vs OGSA BSP) should be checked; are these true and is there
           some difference in interpretation that is unresolvable?
           - Duane will do an initial review to be discussed on the
             April 23 teleconference

AI-0409c: Strawman version of Express Profile (currently called
           "Recommendations for OGSA SOAP Usage") should be complete
           by OGF-20 (Andrew).  
           - Document should be put into GridForge (Duane, Mark).


