OGSA Teleconference - 6 November 2006
=====================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Michel Drescher (Fujitsu)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Alan Sill (TTU)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Apologies: Tom Maguire

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* November 2 minutes approved with no changes

* Action Item review

  - AI-0915e: Closed. Hiro has talked with the OGF Editor. Work is
              starting for setting up an errata process. It will
              likely take some time before completion.

* Postponed HPC Cluster use case/Reference Model and Glossary
  discussion (no quorum)

  Note that the Glossary tracker includes other terms besides the EGA
  ones. For example it was requested by Mark Linesch to define the
  term 'state'.

* OGSA Nov-2006 F2F update

  - OGF NOMCOM is currently looking for candidates for a number of
    open AD or VP positions. Deadline for nominations is Nov.19. 
    - Agreed to allocate a short (5-minute) slot for a NOMCOM
      announcement during the initial Welcome session. More details:
        http://www.ogf.org/ggf_rotate_nominations_GFSG.htm

  - Ellen Stokes will be waiting for attendees at the first floor
    reception at 8:45. Guest badges are required to enter the
    facility.

* OGF/DMTF register review

  - An earlier version was reviewed in a previous call. The main
    difference is the addition of Milestone 6 on the list: "Identify
    and write profiles..."
  - In Milestones:
     - First milestone: This referenced namespace document is very
       similar in intention to OGF GFD.58. It may be a good idea to
       explore harmonization between the DMTF and OGF documents.
    - The second milestone item, the WSDM/CIM document is still a
      working draft. So the review is likely to be less formal than
      for other documents.
      - Given the state of this document, the completion date of the
        review of this document should probably be later than other
        documents.
      - Also DMTF working drafts are not public. Will OGF members have
        access to this document? 
        - The agreement of this work register should allow (at least)
          a few OGF participants acess to the TC's working drafts.
      - Agreed to separate out the WSDM/CIM specification in a
        separate bullet
  - In Contacts: 
    - Andrew Grimshaw is listed (as OGSA-BES chair) but the Container
      document is now a product of the OGSA-WG. 
      - The contact should be either Tom Maguire or Hiro Kishimoto.
  - Other minor revisions:
    - In Contacts: "Design team leads" not "co-chairs"
    - In Milestones: First bullet, 4th line from bottom has extra ')'
    - Change 'grid service' to 'grid technology'
    - 'industry organizations': add '...standards...'
    - Background and Mission: 6th line change 'OGF' to 'GGF'
    - Alliance Benefits: In second bullet, add "organizational level"

  Ellen will prepare an updated version. 

  There is no need for further review by OGSA-WG. As this is an
  agreement between OGF and DMTF there will be a formal review by the
  appropriate OGF and DMTF bodies before acceptance.

* Other business

  - Alan Sill has submitted a request for a BOF for the proposed
    AuthN-WG. He is currently the only proposed chair. Proposals for
    other chairs are welcome, especially for candidates from
    industry. Contact Alan for more details.

  
