OGSA Teleconference Minutes - 10 April 2006
===========================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Darren Pulsipher (EMC)
  Bahareh Rahmanzadeh (Amirkabir U. of Tech.)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  Action: Andreas to update OGSA web site with new teleconference
          information

  Also there is a set of actions for the Webcast participants. (See
  below)

* Updates from Interim Meeting / New guidelines

  - NEW TELECONFERENCE TIME/DAYS
    - Monday call is unchanged (5-7pm CDT)
    - Wednesday call MOVED to Thursday 8:30-10:30am CDT
    
  Action: Andreas to update OGSA web site with new teleconference
          information

  - Upload required material at least 24 hours in advance
  - WG co-chairs may cancel the call if required material is not
    available

* March 27 minutes approved with no changes

* Review of actions (from agenda)

- Hiro: Ask to Steve Crumb to send advertisement to GGF list.
  - Hiro sent email to Steve Crumb to advertise webcast (Done)

- Webcast Participants: send bios to Jem.
  - Jem has received Andrew's bio, and has provided a generic one for
    the panel
  - Hiro to send his bio to Jem
  - Get bios for the rest of the panel when the rest of the panelists
    are confirmed

- Jem: Ask Andrew about his availability for webcast prep in the week of
       April 10 and dry run
  - Andrew's availability: Arranged next call for Thursday 6pm Eastern
    and there is no call at new time this week.
  - Dry run on 17th? 
    - Hiro to talk with Marvin and arrange to share the call with him

- Jem: Ask Frank about his availability for webcast on air 
  - Jem sent mail to Frank. 
  - (Hiro to poll Frank for a reply)

* F2F minutes approval - not ready, postponed for next call

* Webcast presentation review

  Based on Jem's draft presentation.

  The webcast is for one hour. So the slide deck should be cut down to
  40 slides. Animation is not allowed so use slide repetition to
  simulate the effect.

  [Some notes follow, see revised slide deck for details.]

  - slide 8: Add NAREGI and Legion (96,97) and UK e-Science (01, 02)
  - slide 9: spectrum of resources
  - slide 10: looks ok; re-word and re-format
  - slide 18: to be merged into slide 19
  - slides 21-23: Examples of Grids: Andrew to take ownership and do a
    draft.
  - slide 33: 'WS-*' delete since it is already stated that it is the
    OGSA base
  - Andreas will provide material for the JSDL (and the CDL slides)
  - Execution management slides: Andrew to simplify the EMS BLAST
    picture
    - Start from what is required; job description, etc
    - Describing JSDL
    - EMS big picture and what other pieces are there (BES etc)
    - How to prepare the container: CDL
  - Data slides: Ask Dave Berry for input on describing this
    capability
  - RM slides: Fred to provide
  - Other capabilities: Info and Self-management: Get introduction
    from the document and explain that there is limited progress.
  - Profiles treatment: ask Jay and Tom for material
  - OGSA publications: redo as timeline
  - Hiro to re-do OGSA schedule graphic
  - Projects using OGSA: Hiro to provide his slide with project logos
  - Jem will upload revised slide deck
  - Find out when Jay is available for webcast review
  - Jem will do draft of announcement email and send to Hiro who will
    check and forward to Steve Crumb
