OGSA Teleconference - 12 July 2007 - Logistics
==============================================

* Participants

  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Steve McGough (Imperial)
  Mark Morgan (UVA)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  ZackK.
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)

  Minutes: Dave Snelling

* July 2 minutes approved with no changes

* Review of Actions Items

  AI-0511c: Steve Newhouse volunteered to look into the possible next
            documents for the EMS Architecture and draw up a proposal
Pending.

  AI-0611f: Dave S will use the HPC Profile wiki page as a starting
            point and produce a first draft for the interop wiki page,
            by the July 2 call

Done by Andreas Closed.

  AI-0611g: Jem will ask the people involved in the HP WSRF
            implementation about the possibility of taking part in the
            interop.
Pending.

  AI-0611h: Once the wiki page is set up, Hiro will ask the IBM and HP
            OGF Board members for their teams to take part.
Pending.


* Profile Interoperability (David Snelling)

          OGSA WSRF Basic Profile 1.0 Tests page
          - https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/wiki1832

    - Include a way to opt out of certain test.
    - Destroy WSResource rather that service
    - Some discussion about details.
    - Add note about open endpoint.
    - Hiro thinks that NAREGI will not be able to join, remove them
      from the table.
    - Globus will join after August.
    - GridSAM plans to join
    - Hiro to ask Steve T about Univa involvement.
    - Make sure Rachana in on the list.

    - Develop interop pages for naming and the security specs.

* OGF21 session schedule (Hiro)

          Which sessions we will have at OGF21?
          - https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/wiki1834

    - We need to decide by the end of this month.
    - Sessions:
        - Interop
        - Information Models
        - Workflow
        - Express authentication?
        - Informations Services?

* August F2F meeting update (Hiro)

Please answer your availability through SurveyMonkey.
http://www.surveymonkey.com/s.asp?u=88233875297

    - Group rate available at the Corporate Inn (ask for the "Fujiau" Rate)
    - Request to swap information modeling and road map sessions.
        - Hiro to check with session leader

* Action Item management tool (Andreas, if time permits)

  Postponed.




