OGSA Teleconference - October 6 2004
====================================

* Participants

  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva & Jem Treadwell

* F2F meeting schedule

  - A number of people completed the online survey
  - Some confusion over what were valid combination choices (e.g, how
    to say that the Nov. date was not possible.)
  - Latha's second survey submission is the right one (Hiro to ignore
    the first one)

  - Waiting for Ravi's answer since he is one of the key people for
    this meeting. The refactoring/V2 work is a key topic.

  - Washington D.C. seems to be a good choice
    - Andrew might not be able to attend otherwise (teaching commitments)
    - Convenient to Jay, Dave also.

  - Jay booked a room for the F2F in IBM's facilities.

  - Goal: Show a v2 draft at GGF13
    - Need to get v2 doc started in this F2F
    - Second F2F to review V2 in preparation for GGF13

  - Agreed that the second F2F should be in February if the first one
    is December. Otherwise there is not enough time to work on the
    document. (It is cutting it very close to GGF13 though).

* V1 doc update

  - GFSG: Ready to publish the document once the group finishes its
    revision
  
  - It is possible to respond to comments that require extensive
    rework that they will be addressed in V2.

  - Andreas sent to the list an excel sheet summarizing the comments.
    http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2004/10/msg00006.html
    - Tracker submissions were per author. They were divided up and
      sorted by section for a total of 80 items.
    - The group is happy with the number of comments received. Thanks
      to all who submitted comments and to those who worked to solicit
      them.
    - The excel sheet also includes Dave's comments submitted to a
      different tracker (ggf-editor)and Philipp Wieder's comments sent
      to Andreas.
    - Started categorizing the comments (severity); not finished yet.

  - Agreed that most comments can be dealt with in v1. Some have to be
    deferred to v2.  Reviewed a small number of items mainly focusing
    on those that seemed more complex.

    - Entry 6: comment that spec could be shorter deferred to v2
    - Entry 58: Interaction between EMS and Security services
      - Can be thought of as orthogonal
      - Andrew will add some explanatory text in the relevant section
        ("interactions"); more detailed work in v2.
    - Entry 68: The demand/supply pattern as a generalizing approach
      still needs more work; deferred to v2.
    - Entry 69: Elaborate 2 RM subsections: Andreas to follow up with Fred.
    - Entry 74: Difference between self-management and resource
      management: Defer to v2; Andreas to see if a paragraph or so can
      be added in v1 relating to this topic.
    - Entry 77: Remove UML from Information Services: Agreed that even
      though this is a big change it must be done to keep the entire
      document at the same level. Andreas to follow up with
      Bill/Abdeslem.
    - Entry 80: Fix references: Andreas to do.

  - Andrew volunteered to start revising the EMS section and holds the
    pen for that section. Send revised version to Andreas when done.

  - Further discussion of issues scheduled for next week's call.

* Glossary review

  - Jem sent to the list a document with all comments relating to the
    Glossary including his review of them.
    http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2004/10/msg00008.html
    - Started going through comments in order.

  - Andrew to review and respond to comments from Sven Graupner &
    Andrea Westerinen re names and related terms.
    - Also check Andrea's comment against V1 (entry 78)
    - Andrew to look at WSDM work and send them a copy of the naming
      document

  - Mike Behren's comments about choreography and orchestration:
    Discussion about terms 
    - the differences are subtle and not necessarily universally
      agreed.  We included those terms because we used them in the
      OGSA document before it was restructured; if they're no longer
      used it's not necessary for us to define them here 
    - We might want to limit use to more generic terms such as
      workflow.
    - Mike B will review and make a recommendation.

  - Greg Astfalk's comments: Agreement on changes for several of these
    (see Jem's revised doc).  
    - Failure recovery: Replace 'resource' with 'entity' in revised
      definition
    - IPC is a low-level term for movement of bits from one process
      to another; Jem will change the definition to include TCP as an
      example.  
    - No change required for SOA: it was agreed that we don't need to
      describe attributes that are enabled by SOA, and several
      references are provided for more details.  
    - Jem will revise the Web service definition to highlight services
      and/or applications as opposed to machines.

  - Olegario's comments: 
    - It's OK (and normal) to use "See..." where needed. Agreed no
      change needed.
    - Jem will check style guides for capitalization of explanations
      of acronyms and add a reference to the guide if possible.
      - General agreement with Jem's view that these words should only
        be capitalized if they are proper names, but Jem will verify.
    - The proposed additional words will not be added at this rev, but
      will be considered for v2 
      - Andreas will check consumer/provider, since Olegario made a
        related comment for the OGSA document.

  - Review to continue next week.

* GGF12 review

  - Minutes:
    - Security minutes still somewhat incomplete; Andreas to follow up
      with frank/takuya
    - Otherwise minutes seem ok and can be approved.

  - Andreas has a pending action to go through the minutes and produce
    a list of actions for followup in the calls.

* Teleconference scheduling

  - Summer time is nearly over. So next week the group must decide
    whether to let people in Japan sleep one hour more or people in
    Europe go to bed one hour early.

  - EMS call scheduled for next week Monday; Ravi to lead.
  - Next week also planning UC document review for final submission.

