OGSA Teleconference - 29 May 2008 - WSRF BP Interop 
===================================================

* Participants

  Joe Bester
  Donal Fellows
  Tom Howe
  Vivian Lee
  Andreas Savva

  Apologies: Michel Drescher, Mark Morgan, Hiro Kishimoto

* Summary of New Action

    ACTION: Vivian will ask each project to check the table and update
          their information

    ACTION: Tom will update the Globus entries

    ACTION: Andreas will ask Mark about getting the Genesis II endpoint
            back up

    ACTION: Vivian will check with Michel that the example is complete
            and correct

* Postponed minutes approval 
* Interop document review

  - Fix header information. Andreas will send Vivian an example.
  - Delete 'Obsoletes' section as it is not applicable
  - Table 1 needs update by each project 

    ACTION: Vivian will ask each project to check the table and update
          their information

  - Interop tables need update with final results from each project. 

    ACTION: Tom will update the Globus entries

    ACTION: Andreas will ask Mark about getting the Genesis II endpoint
            back up
  
  - Formatting: Make identified issues into sections
  - English: Change 'discovered' to 'identified'
  - WS-Notification example seems incomplete.

    ACTION: Vivian will check with Michel that the example is complete
            and correct

  - Contributors section needs update. Add at least Tom Howe, Dave
    Snelling.

  Vivian will prepare an update version before the OGF23 OGSA session
  next week.
