OGSA Teleconference 23 July 2007 - Logistics
============================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Steven Newhouse (Microsoft) [first 5 minutes]
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Agenda bashing

  - Interop discussion has been re-scheduled for Aug. 2

* July 12 minutes approved with no changes

* Action Items Review

>  AI-0511c: Steve Newhouse volunteered to look into the possible next
>            documents for the EMS Architecture and draw up a proposal

   No progress at this time.

>  AI-0611g: Jem will ask the people involved in the HP WSRF
>            implementation about the possibility of taking part in the
>            interop.

  No update.

>  AI-0611h: Once the wiki page is set up, Hiro will ask the IBM and HP
>            OGF Board members for their teams to take part. 

  The wiki is still at draft 0 level. It should be more complete
  before this action can proceed.

>  AI-0712a: Hiro to ask Steve T about Univa involvement.

  No progress at this time.

* August F2F update

  - Steven Newhouse confirmed his availability for Wednesday afternoon
    (DMI session)
  - Information model agenda is pending on this Thursday's
    teleconference discussion
  - The Primer session is cancelled. Hiro will schedule a Data
    Architecture update instead
  - Service Level Terms session: Hiro to confirm who is leading this
    session: Steve McGough or Mark Morgan
  - Session owners have been asked to fill in their session agendas

*  OGF21 sessions

   - Information model plan will be discussed on Thursday's call
   - Workflow session: Given the lack of progress since last OGF it
     may be better to leave this for the F2F after OGF. Check on the
     Thursday call.
   - Should an Outreach session be planned? No.
   


