OGSA Teleconference 20 December 2004
====================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Steve Tuecke (Univa)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Chris Smith (Platform)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)
  
  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  Action: Hiro to confirm Andrew Grimshaw's availability for Jan 25,
          26 @London.

  - A statement about conformance should probably be included in the
    Profile template document.
    - Tom has the pen on the document; add and re-post it

  - Next step: Work out a draft base profile template

  - Action: Hiro to produce new GGF13 session schedule and review
            again. 
  - Action: Design team leads to list what WGs or other activities
            they do not want to conflict with at GGF13; Send to Hiro.

* Next teleconference on Wednesday
  - This is the last call of the year.
  - Agenda: Introduce revised glossary and version 1.0 and invite
    people to review it by the first call of next year.

* December 15 minutes approval (revised version)

  - Disagreement with some conclusions in the minutes. In particular
    "consensus ... widely adopted by industry ... " 
  - Clarified that minutes are a record of last time's discussion and
    approval only relates to their accuracy. It is acceptable to raise
    topics for discussion again if there is disagreement. It should be
    possible to do so later in this call.
  - Revised minutes approved with no changes.

* F2F meeting planning

  - Re-visited date and place decision.

  - Jan 26-28 (Chicago)
    - This was last call's consensus.
    - Jay and Steve T have a conflict and cannot make it.
    - Agreed that it is still a possibility given that Tom and Ian can
      make it instead of Jay and Steve T.
   
  - Jan 31 - 1 Feb (Chicago)
    - Steve T can make it; Ian cannot.
    - Conflict with UK E-Science meeting. Also not good for Dave S &
      Tom due to conflict with WSRF, WSN F2F.
    - Rejected.
  
  - Week of GlobusWorld (Feb 7-11)
    - Re-considered 7 & 8 Feb; arrange to have Globus team only on the
      7th.
    - Rejected since Steve T had reservations on how much time he
      could commit.
    - Also re-considered and re-rejected the weekend before
      GlobusWorld.

  - Proposal for Jan 25 - 26, @London
    - No conflicts for people on the call. 
    - Not sure about Andrew's availability given the PC meeting at
      Chicago later than week and the UK e-Science meeting the week
      after.

  - Current order of preference:
    1. Jan 25, 26 @London
    2. Jan 27, 28 @Chicago

  Action: Hiro to confirm Andrew Grimshaw's availability for Jan 25,
  26 @London.

* SAGA-WG F2F report

  - Simple API for Grid Applications
  - Distributed F2F using Access Grid.
  - Chris participated as OGSA-WG rep.

  - Planning language bindings for "usual suspects"
  - SAGA group is not trying to define an architecture; just a 'view'
    in the grid world
  - First step to look at what people have been doing so far. SAGA-WG
    members looked at OGSA-WG use cases since it is an existing
    document.
    - The OGSA use cases are more abstract than SAGA expects. Thought
      about putting them into SAGA format but gave up because of the
      EGR use case handover discussion.
  - SAGA focus
    - Files (physical & logical)
    - Job submission
    - Data streams

  - After the F2F people are working in smaller groups and will bring
    results by next SAGA call

  - Does file handling API include posix API?
    - Yes. There are two parts, metadata (directory) management & file
      access
    - Data team planning to have a look since it looks like there is
      an overlap.

  - Approved proposal for Chris to be formal liaison of OGSA-WG to SAGA-WG

*  Profile definition document review

   - Review of strawman produced by Dave S and Tom.

   http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/draft-ggf-ogsa-profile-template/en/1

   - WS-I style profiles with GGF flavor
   - Goal of profile definition? 
     - No forward looking statements; Building on existing GGF work
       and exploiting the proposed recommendation/recommendation
       process.

   - Profile consists of references to specs that compose it
     - Normative references. Require a persistent url at an
       institutional site. Requirement that it is 'permanent.'
     - Reference might be only to a sub-section of other specs,
       including profiles.
     - Also need to state the current status of specification
   
   - Candidate profile vs profile
     - The difference is in the contents of the profile 
     - Candidate profiles contain specifications that are not at a
       level that qualifies them as recommendation (ref: 2-d
       classification )

     - Renamed "candidate profile" to "informational profile" for
       clarity.

   - Proposing 2-dimensional lifecycle of specs: 
     1. Status within standards process (Status); and
     2. Standing within the community (Adoption)

   - Dimension 1: "Status"
     - Institutional standard
     - De facto standard
     - Evolving standard
     - Consortium specification
     - Evolving consortium specification
     - Draft specification

   - Dimension 2: "Adoption"
     - Ubiquitous
     - Adopted 
     - Community
     - Interoperable
     - Implemented
     - Unimplemented 
     
   - Motivation is to categorize specifications and make the criteria
     for inclusion or exclusion clear. In other words, define areas
     [status-adoption] that should be excluded and provide a guide to
     what kind of specs can be included. For example:

     - WSRF in this taxonomy would probably be 'evolving' since there
       is a stable specification that people are implementing to (but
       is not completed yet).

     - JSDL is at a more volatile state and does not have the same
       degree of widespread implementation (so despite its value might
       be not be eligible for inclusion in the Basic profile at this
       moment).

     - WS-Addressing as an example of a spec that was adopted first
       before being put in the standards process (so would have been
       ineligible earlier)
 
   - Required features: It is possible to include only part of a spec
              in a profile.
   - Restrictions: It is possible to place additional requirements,
                   beyond those in an included spec.
   - Extensions: It is possible to allow more flexibility than defined
                 in an included spec. (But it is not the intention to
                 allow complete redefinition of a spec, e.g., change
                 MUST to MAY.)

   - Security section: Required by GGF

   - Profile type distinction
     - Informational profile: can include anything since it is an
       informational document. Allows for inclusion of specifications
       that may be controversial/volatile etc
       
     - Recommended profile as proposed recommendation
       - Cannot include draft specs or specs not in standards track
       - MUST be institutional standard, evolving or de-facto
         - Examples put forward: WSDM, WSRF, WSDL, x509, also JSDL
         - But not WS-Federation (not submitted to a standards body)
       - MUST be Interoperable, Community, Adopted, Ubiquitous
         - Proposal to add 'Implemented' to this list (Dave B)

   - Recommended profile as published recommendation
     - All specs included must be beyond 'interoperable' and
       'consortium specification'
     - And an experimental document required to move it through GGF
       process

   - Text looks good. It spells out a lot of the thinking that has
     been implicit so far. The document is not that long but it would
     be nice to have short 2-3 slide presentation to describe it.

   - Any disagreement about detailed definitions or is there any spec
     that cannot be covered?
     - Discussion focused around different specs and their likely
       classification:
     - OGSA-DAI raised as an example that is difficult to classify
       (and put in a recommended profile) using the definitions
       provided here.
     - WS-Agreement might also be difficult to justify at this point
       for inclusion in a proposed recommendation
     - WSRF as evolving standard; spec may be stable but also might
       change further:
        - Profile has to include a date by which the final version of
          the included specs are expected
        - And this is the main difference between evolving standard
          and institutional one.
     - GSI: Proxy certificates are an RFC draft
       - An evolving standard probably at 'community' level so it
         would be acceptable in a recommended profile
       - But it is still undecided whether to include it or not.
  - Consensus is that the direction and overall feeling of the
    document is fine. 
    - There will be more opportunities to refine the classification
      proposed here as profile work progresses.
    - Note that this document itself is an informational document.

  - Open issue: How is compliance defined? 
  - A statement about conformance should probably be included in the
    document.
    - Tom has the pen on the document; add and re-post it

  - Next step: Work out a draft Base profile template

* GGF 13 schedule review

  - Based on Hiro's proposal:
    http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2004/12/msg00033.html

  - Data profile discussion is on the agenda. Is it likely that there
    will be draft by then?
    - Should be able to make some statements about what specs to
      include but probably not to the level of talking about details,
      e.g., restrictions, etc.
    - Can there be discussion of a data profile before the base
      profile is out? Agreed that yes.
    - Concerns raised about embodiment of resource under OGSA-DAI and
      how it would fit together with the rest of the profiles.
    - Agreed to get Data team people to attend OGSA F2F, especially if
      it is going to be held in London.

  - Tom pointed out the need to have the EMS and Data teams vet the
    work done on Base profile. In particular need to make sure that
    what the Base profile defines is consistent and well understood by
    EMS and Data because profiles are additive and requirements should
    not be relaxed by higher profiles.

  - Hopefully there will be a fairly well formed draft of the Base
    profile by F2F; e.g., basic specs, conformance points,
    clarifications around the specs chosen, etc.

  - Agreed to re-order sessions. In particular
    - Move Naming before the EMS and Data
    - Interleave the Base profile, EMS, Data sessions so as to allow
      time to get more feedback from the different teams

  - Action: Hiro to produce new GGF13 session schedule and review
            again. 
  - Action: Design team leads to list what WGs or other activities
            they do not want to conflict with at GGF13; Send to Hiro.
