Minutes of the OGSA Data WG teleconference, 16th March 2007


1) Early discussion
 
* Roll call 
Dave Berry, NeSC 
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Allen Luniewski, IBM

The minutes were approved
 

2)  Action report

* Completed actions

[Dave] request OGF20 session.
[Allen] mail OGSA security group to ask whether any work exists that defines the degree of privacy supported by a service.
[Allen] assign tracker artefacts to people.
[All] review comments in security section before March 9th meeting.
[All] review new tracker artefacts to make sure they are correct.
[Dave] Submit comments on TSC
[Mario] Mapping section - state that the stuff was derived from DAIS/ByteIO and possibly state why certain properties have not been used in the  Data architecture.


* Ongoing actions

[Allen and Dave] to review schedule.

[Dave] mail Simon to clarify the "classify" operation on metadata catalogues.
[Dave] discuss "data resource" definition with OGSA WG.

[Chris] send out second draft of GFS scenario.

[Dave]  to create or reuse scenario slides for main OGSA slide set.

* To be added to the trackers

[Mike] Section 12 - Metadata Catalogue and Replication - needs to be worked on
[Mario] Describe the semantics of destruction of services/data in the early section. The service has to define it's semantics.
[Mario] Include a paragraph in the Appendix setting the context and scope of each of the specs.
[Mario] Use the data access patterns to motivate the data access section.
[Mario] In the data access section, the create operation needs to be scoped down.  Maybe break it down into separate operations.

[?] The glossary needs to be updated.
[?] The cache section needs to be completed.
 
[?] Appendix 1 listing specs – already done?
[?] Appendix 2 summary of general interfaces – to be completed in final draft?
[?] Appendix 3 mappings to specs – to be completed in final draft?
 
[Dave] to revise the EMS/Data scenarios
 
[?] Add Data Caching scenario
[?] Add Data Warehousing scenario
[Dave] Add Metadata Catalogue scenario
 
[?] Incorporate Avaki and Oracle scenarios as motivation.
 
[Dave] What about asynchronous operations and aborting requests? (Suspend/Resume/Abort Request)
 

3) OGSA F2F report

The data use cases discussion led into a discussion about data-aware scheduling.  Jay Unger and Andrew Grimshaw will produce a draft paper.  This might influence what will be needed in the EMS/Data scenarios. 

The QoS session has two aspects: how the client specifies what it wants, how services describe what they can offer, and how to match the two.  A hard problem is how to specify the trade-offs between various QoS options.  A more likely approach is for a service to offer a number of levels and the client to pick the most appropriate one.  

The JSDL 2.0 discussion focussed on how to move from JSDL 1.0 to JSDL 2.0, e.g. can the JSDL 2.0 features be treated as extensions.

The data model discussion looked at GLUE from an OGSA perspective.

The security discussion was about whether to create a design team to look at a short-term authentication profile.

There was some discussion about organising interop sessions.


4) Tracker report

We reviewed the trackers - see GridForge for changes.


5) DONM.

30th March 2007
