Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, 7th September 2005.

0)
        - Dave to contact more people about Personal Data services
	- Dave to request that Bill's BOF at GGF15 precedes our main session
        - Dave/Allen to mail section authors re review telcons
	- Dave to invite people to streams BOF/planning
        - Dave to check access to phones from UK All-Hands Meeting.

        - Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG
        - Allen to write an overview section on security 
        - Section authors to add security notes to their sections

        - Mario to ask an OGSA-DAI staff member to write something on the security issues around OGSA-DAI 
        - Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document
        - Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation (after internal reviews). 

1) Early discussion

Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Allen Luniewski, IBM

Minutes approved.


2) Action report
        - Allen to mail list re possible F2F meeting at GGF15 [Done: Mario won't be there, Stephen requests not Monday, no other responses]
        - Dave to contact people about Personal Data services [some sent; more to do]
        - Dave/Allen to mail David Martin and Joel about running a streams BOF at GGF15 [Done; Dave submitted a BOF request]
        - Dave/Allen to mail Bill/Malcolm to confirm they are available for next week's telcon [Done; no response from Bill]
        - Dave to consult OGSA WG security design team re GGF15 session [Done] 
        - Dave to submit GGF15 session requests [Done]
        - Allen to contact DFDL WG regarding a discussion on transformations [Group chair doesn't wish to discuss this at the moment]

        - Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG [Ongoing]
        - Allen to write an overview section on security [Still to do]
        - Section authors to add security notes to their sections [Will follow from Allen's work]
        - Dave/Allen to mail section authors re review telcons 

        - Mario to ask an OGSA-DAI staff member to write something on the security issues around OGSA-DAI [Still to do]
        - Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document [Ongoing]
        - Allen to investigate possibility of writing an article, or letter to the editor, to Grid Today saying that we are working on these issues.  We should also invite participation in our efforts.  [No way of doing anything short of writing an article] 
        - Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation (after internal reviews). 


3) GGF-15 Session Summary & Assignment of Actions 

Three sessions requested:
1 BOF (streams)
1 90-minute session (60 mins security, 30 mins transfer)
1 45-minute session (scenarios)

Overall aim is to have a small number of slides/foils that create a lot of discussion.

Streams:
Dave to invite Beth Plale, ByteIO, SAGA, (ask Dave de Roure, US sensornet, Steve Pickles for more suggestions).  Prepare a set of questions for people to address; ask them if they want to make a pitch.  Put this on the agenda for next week.  

Dave to request that Bill's BOF precedes our main session.

security:
Allen to walk through security subsections.

Transfer:
What are the main operations - what are their APIs?  If we can establish that, we can map them onto the lower level.  This will test the hypothesis that we can factor data transfer into levels at all.  Dave & Malcolm to produce slides?
Possible scenarios: coroutine (producer->transmission->consumer), pulling body of data, pushing body of data. 

scenarios:
Stephen to Walk through document.

4) Data Transfer Discussion
Abandoned due to lack of key people.

5) Wrap up
Dave to check access to phones from UK All-Hands Meeting.

Future telcons:
- 14th: Planning streams session for GGF; possibly also security
- 21st: Reviews
- 28th: Planning transfer session for GGF (Allen can't make it)


