OGSA Teleconference - 27 October 2004
=====================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu) 
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC/ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jeffrin Von Reich (HP)

  Apologies: Latha Srinivasan, Michael Behrens

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes approval

  - October 20 minutes approved with no changes

  - EMS minutes (Oct 11 & 25) to be approved next EMS teleconference.
  - GGF12 security minutes: Takuya to revise.

* OGSA F2F #9

  - No update. Hiro to contact Jay.

* Use Case (Tier 1) document update

  - Almost complete; Hiro sent out latest draft yesterday.

  - Group did a quick review 
    - p1: core services: ok
    - p2: reference to Ch.2 of OGSA v1 draft-14 is ok since the UC
      document is 'bound' to draft-14.
    - There used to be a couple of 'TBD' occurrences: Hiro to check
      and delete if still there.
    - Added paragraph to Acknowledgments for public comments
      reviewers.
 
  - Document looks ready. Hiro to submit to GGF-Editor.

* Teleconference time 

  - Agreed to keep the same {US, EU} time slot for the Wednesday call
    - So the teleconference time for Japan time becomes 8:00am)

  - Monday time slot has to be decided by each design team

  - Next Monday call: Naming 
    - Andrew has indicated that the same US timeslot is ok.

* V1 public comments review

  [Numbers relative to
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/documen/ogsa-v1-public-comments/4]

** Capabilities (3.1)

  - 45: Fig 1: 'strong barrier'
    - Add explanatory text to express that lines show OGSA focus and
      are not a 'barrier'

  - 46: 'Fine arrows in Fig. 1' 
    - Add explanation on arrows or edit figure
    - Also consider making the background color of the figures
      lighter. It is difficult to read them when printing in
      grayscale. (Not a high priority at this stage.)

  - 47: 
    - 3rd paragraph: Ravi to check text for clarity and add
      explanation/revise to make connection with Figure 1 clearer.
    - 4th paragraph: Add a reference to section 2; table 1 ogsa use
      cases. (Might also need to make clear that the use case list is
      not exhaustive as it stands.)

** Framework (section 3.2)

  - 48: '3rd bullet elaboration: OGSA not OO' 
    - Add some text to this if possible (might be ok to leave as
      future work if no time)

  - 49: 'service relationship, Fig.3 stacking'
    - The intention is not for Fig.3 to describe a stacking. Need to
      revise the figure or at least add some text to explain it
      better.
    - (Splitting out service relationship & adding more text might be
      left as future work)

  - 50: 
    - 'Usefulness of Fig.2'
      - Agreed there is a big gap between Fig 1 & 2. Need more text,
        but that can be left as future work.
      - Do need to make clearer the relation of Fig 2 to the rest of
        the document. Part of the problem is that the capabilities
        described later on are not represented properly in Fig 2. Try
        to make the linkage to the rest of the document more
        immediate. E.g., instead of having 'orchestrates' replace it
        with 'EMS' which is a sub-bullet, and so on.
    - 'standards applied to specs that are not standard yet' 
      - Revise
    - 'Fig 3. add orchestrates'
      - Ravi to consider it.
  
  Action: Ravi to revise figures and text

** Resource management

   - 87: 'Elaborate 3.6.3 & 3.6.5'
     - Fred to look into bringing in more text from the CMM
       document. Leave for v2 otherwise.
  
   - 88: Add CIM as an example at an appropriate place. Need more work
     in v2.

   - 89: 
     - Caption below table: Leave as is (Our style is above).
     - WS-resource to WS-Resource: fix.

   - 90: WSDM reference: Text does not refer to a specific document
     (describes the deliverables of WSDM TC.) Decided to put the url
     to the TC's home page when WSDM is mentioned (earlier location,
     p17?).  >Assigned to Andreas

   - 91: 'Is policy a property'
     - No. Delete from 3.6.4.5 and add to 3.6.3
      
   Action: Fred to do revision by next week

* Process discussion

  - Reviewed Hiro's spreadsheet and in particular stakeholder
    assignments
   - The spreadsheet list interested parties, per capability and
     includes liaison information
   - Ideally the liaison is someone active in both groups.
   
   - Stakeholders for resource mgmt:
     - Liaison: Fred
     - Other efforts:
       - WSDM
       - DMTF
       - Globus
     - Agreed that more refinement is needed;
     
     Action: Fred to fill in RM section with more information.

* Glossary public comment review

  [Continued from last time.]

  - Service group: 
    - Definition comes from WSRF. Agreed to prefix with "In WSRF..."
    - How it is 'formatted' in WSRF documents? Agreed to format the
      same way.
    - Related question of how it is used in the OGSA v1
      document. There are only 3 occurrences and the usage seems
      consistent. 

  - SOAP: reject: Agreed that SOAP is no longer an acronym
  - URI: use W3C defs and update URL definition as well 
    - (URL is used but URI does not appear in the document.)

  - Publish/Subscribe:  leave for v2

  - Event: agree with the comment and will revise.
    - Also agreed to change "computer system" to "IT system"

  - Self-management: Revise example of hardware/software so that it is
    not so 'computer' centric and then review >Assigned to Andreas

  - How JSIM fits in OGSA is v2 work: JSIM not mentioned in OGSA v1
    (role not discussed by EMS authors) so no need to add to glossary.

  - Definition of manageable resource: Fred and Jem to talk offline.
  
  - Naming: Re-read the definition and OGSA v1 text and understood why
    Andrea thinks there is a contradiction. Need to fix.
    - Human name and abstract are not unique in ogsa v1 but are
      implied to be so by the way the definitions are laid out.
    - Andrew has this assignment. 

  - Policy: Leave definition as is (it is appropriate for our current
    usage) and reply that need to revisit when we become more concrete
    in v2.

  - SLA/SLO: same answer as previous comment.

  - CIM: add definition

  - Acronyms: add or not.
    - Agreed that some acronyms should be added but not all.
    - Review which ones to add next call.

  Action: Jem to do revisions and then start final review next week.
           Also review assignments to make sure all text is in.

* Marketing document discussion

  - Ravi hasn't read it so postpone discussion. Hiro to send him a
    copy and discuss by email.

* Roadmap  

  - Postpone for next call since Ian, Andrew, Jay are not on the
    call. (Also would like Dave to take part.)

  


