OGSA Teleconference - 9 May 2005
================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Takuya Mori (NEC, ANL)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Ian Foster (ANL)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Apologies: Andrew Grimshaw, Mark Morgan

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* Teleconference minutes, April 27, approved with no changes

* May F2F update
  
  - No update
  - The ACS F2F is planned during the same week but in a different
    place.

* GGF14 schedule review

  There is some confusion over GGF14 dates. The GGF site however has
  the correct dates (June 27-30).

  Some people had already made plans based on the 'old' dates of June
  26-29. So they might not be able to attend any sessions scheduled on
  the last day, e.g., design team reports.

** WSDM and OGSA cross-wg session
   - Being planned
   - Must be Monday or Tuesday
   - WSDM TC is also planning some other events at GGF14 
     - Community session: light presentation interop/demo and a F2F on
       June 30
     - Also a deep dive session

   Action: Fred will update the sessions spreadsheet with the details,
           constraints etc, and send back to Hiro.

** DMTF Utility Computing (UC) WG cross-wg session
    - Constraints:
      - Must be Monday or Tuesday
      - Tom and Fred are owners
      - Should not conflict with JSDL and CDDLM
    - Has overlap with EMS / CSG on allocation and resource
      reservation
    - Planning on information exchange: from UC to GGF/OGSA
    - EGA members are also participating in the UC-WG

    Action: Tom to provide a more detailed agenda
  
** Status and Future session
  - Renamed Basic Profile to WSRF Basic Profile; need to consider
    implications and possibly present and discuss these at the 'Status
    and Future' session
  - (Also need to talk about it during the May F2F)

** Outreach session

   Need to double-check who will be representing EGA and when they
   will be available

   Action: Hiro to follow up with Andrew and EGA people

** EMS & RSS: Hiro to follow up with Andrew and Ravi

** RM: Fred will talk with Tom Rooney

** Security: Not sure yet. Hiro to follow up with Takuya and Frank.

** Naming: Not sure; nobody on the call.

** Submitted documents session: 
   - Get feeback for documents submitted (perhaps already in public
     comment at the time)
   - It is an outreach session and should be held early on.

** Design team report session

** Overall

   OGSA-WG should prepare its schedule and submit early in order to
   help GGF planning

* Basic Profile review

  - The updated version is not on gridforge yet. Tom will upload it
    soon after this call.

  - Discussion points for F2F:
    - Issues: [1322, 1323] proxy certs and assertions

  - Do we think basic profile is complete and does it form a base for
    interoperability?

  - Appendix has grown bigger
    - Renewable references
    - Key exchange
  
  - 'Naming' still needs to be done separately in order to cover wider
    grid requirements. Renewable references are useful on their own so
    they are included in the BP.

    This is a factoring decision and may have to be re-visited as the
    Naming Profile work proceeds.

  - Next steps: 
    - Put up updated version
    - Discuss open issues during F2F

  - Ian to get Univa folks to review
  - Tom to also ask comments from Marty Humphrey
    - May also send it to Savas for comments

  - Side discussion on WS-Addressing schema stability: 
    - It is holding back the work of 2-3 OASIS TCs.

  - Issue with state of References: Should they be 'final' or not
    - The problem is whether the changes are non-substantive or not.

  - p4, section 1.3: Namespaces need updating
  - p4: "Conformance requirements" dangling reference 
  - R0305 & R0306 duplicate; this is a known issue.
  - Notification is sometimes abbreviated as WS-N and WS-NT: choose
    one and use consistently.

  - Is it ok to have a normative appendix? 
    - Yes, it's common. No need to put this text in the body of the
      document. 
  - Changed the name from 'normative description' to 'specification'

  - Also need to put this description in the profile definition
    document.

* Profile definition document

  - Need to update references
  - Need to close issue on 'process' issue

* Roadmap document 

  - New version is on gridforge
  - Need more data from the various WGs
