OGSA Teleconference - 9 April 2007 - Logistics
==============================================

* Participants

  Andrew Grimshaw (UVA)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Duane Merrill (UVA)
  Mark Morgan (UVA)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  ZackK

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* Summary of new actions

   AI-0409a: Andreas will check the discussion at the last F2F and
              update the wiki for the EMS Information Services session. 
			  (EMS session owner needs to be confirmed.)

* Approval of April 5 minutes; postponed due to lack of quorum

* Action items review

  - AI-0314a: Andrew will produce an outline for this article once he
              finishes work on an ongoing paper.
    - People volunteering to help out in addition to Andrew: Chris K;
      Andreas; and probably Hiro
  - AI-0314pm-b: A BOF has been arranged on Monday 6pm "Service
                 Level Terms". There is no need for a teleconference
                 before that. CLOSED.

* OGF20 

** Hotel

   There is no recommended but a number of people have already booked
   the Hilton

** Sessions

   There is a wiki page set up and session owners should put up their
   agenda when it is fixed.

   EMS Information Services owner should be confirmed. 

   AI-0409a: Andreas will check the discussion at the last F2F and
              update the wiki for the EMS Information Services session.

** OGF20 F2F 
  - Andrew and Mark are not available Friday

* Teleconference schedule

** Thursday 
   
   Confirmed both slots

   - Glossary session led by Jem Treadwell
   - EMS Scenario public comment review led by Andreas

** Next Monday 

   Confirmed slot for Workflow usecase led by Chris K

   If possible to upload or make some material available by Friday to
   give a chance to people to review in advance
