Minutes of the OGSA-D telcon, 20th August 2007


* Roll call

Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)



* Architecture Document

We reviewed all the remaining comments.

Dave to fix Figure 9.

Dave to define "Data staging".

Dave to update Glossary.

Allen to define "Storage management".

Mario to draft conclusion.

Dave to resolve remaining references.

Mario to accept all changes in document


* Work items

2. Chapter 2 needs work.  It is a collection of disjoint sections.  The purpose of the chapter is unclear.  We must ensure that all material is where it belongs in this chapter.  [Mario to review]

3. Verify that chapter 3 is still consistent with what OGSA is doing these days [Allen to send to Hiro and Andreas]

4. The comments about policy and data service in 3.7 do not belong in this chapter since they are not OGSA comments but OGSA Data comments.  They probably  belong in a new chapter 5. [Mario]

5. We need to rationalize headers in the operation tables that are at the start of chapters [Easy]

8. We need to update Appendix 13, Standards [TBD]

9. Chapter 14, Operations, needs to be created once the operations in the document are stable [Easy]

10. Chapter 15, Operation Mapping, needs to be created once the operations in the document are stable. 

12. The references need to be finished [Dave]

14. We need to review current tracker artifacts and either address them in this version of the document or agree to defer them to V2. [All]



DONM: Monday August 20th.



