==============================================================================
ACS Teleconference Minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: Jun 5 Mon 20:00 EDT / Jun 6 Tue 9:00 JST
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu) - minutes
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Role call, note taker & time keeper, agenda bashing. 
2. ACS convergence at the OASIS SDD TC. 

   As Tom posted, the SDD TC concluded that it will try to
   keep alignment with GGF standards, including ACS, JSDL and
   CDDLM. My idea as a ACS-WG is to keep providing ACS information
   to them to make sure SDD covers our needs and requirements, then
   after it is finalized, we can reorganize our specification to
   have better alignment with it. My expectation is the change to
   the ACS 1.0 spec. is at a level of name change in the schema
   rather than hashing the entire structure of AAD document and no
   impacts on ARI, the repository interface. The migration of the
   existing implementations of ACS 1.0 should be easy and start
   after the formal revision of ACS 1.0; that would happen no earlier
   than 1Q, 2007.

   All of the SDD TC Document are open to public through the below URI:
      http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/documents.php?wg_abbrev=sdd
   You must set a large number for "Number of Documents" field to see
   whole set of documents. Sorting by column is available on the page.

3. Submission of the final ACS Spec. 1.0 after Public Comments 
   We have finished revision of the document, in response to the
   public comments collected. The resulted document is uploaded
   the tracker below:
      https://forge.gridforum.org/tracker/index.php?aid=1696
   We also made replies to comments on the public review tracker:
      https://forge.gridforum.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=592
   Editor Tracker:
      https://forge.gridforum.org/tracker/index.php?aid=1696
   We expect that it will go through the process soon.
   
4. GGF17 session and plan for GGF18
   I participated several sessions including BES, OGSA at GGF17.
   No ACS sessions. 
   We anticipate at GGF18 in September to cover reference implementations 
   update including NAREGI PSE, and Business Grid. Mike mentioned making
   use of open repositories to hold implementation code.
5. Updates 
   Tom is retiring from IBM on June 9th. He will be sending his resignment 
   notice of ACS-WG co-chair. At this moment that we have finalized our
   ACS Spec. 1.0, we don't need to fill his position immediately.
   (Tom's resignment notice was posted to acs-wg on Jun 8.)
6. Wrap up, Next meeting(5 min)
   From now on, we will focus on the reference implementation related 
   activity, including research/supporting work or recruiting the new 
   projects .
   Next meeting was not scheduled. Seperate notice will be posted on demand.
