OGSA Teleconference - 6 July 2006
=================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Michel Drescher (Fujitsu)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of new actions

    ACTION: Jay will look into getting a room at downtown D.C. for the
            B2B F2F after GGF18

    ACTION: Hiro will ask Pete Ziu to check if it is possible to
            reserve a room at Northrop Grumman for the B2B F2F after
            GGF18

* June 29 minutes approval postponed; no quorum

* Action item review

  - Hiro will send out an email outlining the GGF18 proposal and aim
    to confirm it on the next call

    - GGF18 proposal not sent out yet. Hiro will send it out to the
      list and concurrently request the four sessions that the group
      talked about on a previous call.
    - Postponed decision for a back-to-back meeting GGF18 (Friday)
      until the July F2F. Potential hosts are Northrop Grumman 
      or IBM. 

    ACTION: Jay will look into getting a room at downtown D.C. for the
            B2B F2F after GGF18

    ACTION: Hiro will ask Pete Ziu to check if it is possible to
            reserve a room at Northrop Grumman for the B2B F2F after
            GGF18

  - Hiro to ask Jun and Dejan to check the CDL documents
    - Waiting for feedback from Dejan/Jun  

  - Hiro to also make any relevant updates to the Scenarios text
    - Not urgent and since the Scenarios draft is now in flux it is ok
      to postpone it until the F2F

  - Jun/Hiro to also prepare the post-deployment BLAST CDL
    document
    - There was a discussion of this at the April F2F and Jun had
      shown some samples that could be used as a base.

  - Andreas to upload the sequence diagrams to Gridforge.
    - URL sent out by email. Closed.

  - Agreed that action items that become obsolete should be dropped
    from the list.
  - Closed the last four on the action list (Compliance and three
    deferred ones) as obsolete.

* July F2F update

  - Agreed to take one hour at the end of the EMS session on Thursday
    to discuss Geoffrey Fox's comments on OGSA.
  - Also arrange an informal discussion (smaller group) before
    Wednesday.

* EMS Architecture review

  - No objections to overall structure and outlined content. A revised
    first draft with better drafted content will be available at the
    F2F.

  - Make sure that sequences focus only on their specific topic and
    clearly show how they build on each other.

* OGSA 1.5 review

  - Andreas had updated the Intellectual rights & Copyright statement
    at the back but it needs some further corrections. (Andreas)
  - Naming policy statement needs more explanation. It assumes that
    the reader has knowledge of WS-Naming and what 'profiled usage'
    is. Also it looks normative but it does not use normative
    terminology and so may be confusing. It is not clear how (not
    stated that) the statements build on each other.
    - Jem will send a proposed revision to Andreas
  - WSDM 1.1 is going to vote for OASIS Standard, should the WSDM
    reference document be updated? It is not critical. Keep it as is.
  - (tm) and (sm) usage: Re-affirmed that for now, first use is ok and
    try to make sure that it is used as an adjective. But it is not a
    showstopper and this document does not have to wait until the
    guidelines are clarified.
  - Agreed to discuss general (tm) (sm) usage guidelines at the
    F2F. 
