Minutes for the OGSA-D WG telcon, 27th April 2005

0) Actions arising

- Fred to send notes on how to use Majordomo to Allen and Dave.
- Dave to try to arrange data transfer discussion. 
- Allen to write up naming use cases for passing to OGSA WG (after review in our WG).
- Ann and Allen to clean up the draft and mail it around.


1) Early discussion 

* Roll call 
Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Fred Maciel, Hitachi
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Ann Chervenak, ISI

Minutes approval of last design team call
Agenda bashing


2) Action report 

- Dave to mail contributors re common section structure. [Done]
- Dave to add version number to header and accept current changes. [Done]
- Dave to ask NextGrid/InfoD about transfer to non-service endpoints. [Done.  InfoD specifically address transfer to non-service endpoints.]
- Allen to get in touch with Steve Crumb about setting up the WG. [Done]
- Dave to mail F2F meeting info to relevant people who aren't on the OGSA WG mailing list. [Done]
- Dave to propose a presentation of data area work to the main OGSA F2F. [Done.  Hiro agreed to schedule this.]
- Dave to ping Malcolm regarding data transfer discussions at the F2F. [Done.  Malcolm didn't commit to attending.  Someone else from NextGrid will attend.]
- Dave to mail contributors to see which weeks they can attend, with an eye to setting agendas. [Done]

3) WG plans (10 min)
 
Mailing list ogsa-d-wg set up.  GGF will send a note to the whole community announcing the new group.

We should get space on GridForge soon - this is waiting on resolution of some GridForge problems.  We will need to add people to the GridForge group to allow access to documents etc.

We plan to use trackers on GridForge to keep track of all issues.  This is also useful for keeping track of progress.  We assign trackers to individual people.

Fred to send notes on how to use Majordomo to Allen and Dave.

Topics for future meetings:

Apr 27 - Replication
May 4  - Data access - WS-DAI and ByteIO
May 11 - Data storage
May 18 - Document review & plan for F2F

Dave to try to arrange data transfer discussion.

4) F2F planning 

Aim to find technical points during telcons for discussion at F2F.

Default hotel - Rydges Hotel on Gloucester Road.


5) Technical content - Replication

Issue: Should we require a primary data source or should we support a P2P model?  Allen thinks this affects the prose more than the underlying technological concerns.  Ann suggested addressing each in separate paragraphs.

Issue: How to write the replica discovery section that is more general than file-specific?

Issue: RNS is too specific for our needs.  

Issue: In the file world, one tends to replicate individual files.  In the database world, replicas tend to be specified by queries.  It isn't clear how to reflect this in the RNS structure.  

Further, in the file world, they tend to run a query to extract a new file and then replicate the extracted file.  This is over-specifying the mechanism.

Allen to write up naming use cases for passing to OGSA WG (after review in our WG).


Issue: Describing files.  Flag as something that needs to be defined.

Issue: Specifying consistency policies (e.g. time-based consistency).

Issue: Where is access control specified?  If there is a primary, access could be specified there. Given a VO mechanism, it could be specified there (e.g. Globus Community Authorisation Service).  There is an interested question if a partial query results in less-sensitive data than the full set.

Issue: Management of replicas.

Issue: We need to make some mention of bulk loads into this section.

Ann and Allen to clean up the draft and mail it around.


6) Wrap up

DONM: May 4th
