OGSA Teleconference - 26 June 2006
==================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Tom Maguire (EMC)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Susanne Balle (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* June 22 minutes approval postponed - no quorum

* Action review 

- Jay will contact Platform (Chris Smith) and Condor (Miron Livny)
  to get feedback on pros / cons of the two rendering approaches
  (postpone until June 19) 
  - Jay is waiting for material from Miron.

* OGSA 1.5 review

** Architecture

   - Reviewed changes for monolithic issue.
   - Remaining issues from Geoffrey Fox comments will probably be
     answered separately. Andreas is talking with Dave S.
   - Other minor changes to update References per Jem's comment.
   
** Glossary

   - Reviewed consumer/producer and agreed to delete the definitions
     since they do not add anything beyond the normal English meaning
     of the words.
   - WS-Notification status is still proposed; leave the comment in
     until the final draft is put out
   - WSRF status needs update

** Next step
   - Andreas will confirm with Dave S about the rest of the comments
     and then send out final drafts for Architecture and Glossary.

* Other documents
  - WSRF Basic Profile expected to be published soon (finished GFSG
    review)
  - Basic Security Profiles finished public comment and now in Author
    review.

* New gridforge
  - The new gridforge is still not allowing users to put in comments
    to documents under review. 
  - 'Copying' a document in the old gridforge created a hard link; in
    the new one it is a separate copy. Andreas had to delete all the
    working drafts that were linked under the Root folder for
    convenience. He will put together a summary wiki page to current
    drafts.
    - Jem is thinking of keeping track of a document state on the wiki
      (e.g., draft, public comment, etc). This relates a bit to the
      Roadmap but is smaller scale; just for the OGSA-WG products.
  - WG front page needs customization, e.g., move links under 
    "Group Information."
  - Andreas has linked the public calendar into the OGSA forge site
    and will be announcing it on the list.
 
* GGF18 planning

  Based on the current work of the group the main topics should be
  Information Modeling and EMS. Proposal worked on the call is for 4
  sessions and an option for a one day F2F, if necessary.

  - Information modeling: Two back-to-back sessions (90 minutes each)
    - Info-Model has an overlap with a number of other groups but it
      is probably better to keep the discussion within one group
      (OGSA) for now.
    - The first session on basic information modeling and the next on
      its relation/application in other groups (BES/JSDL/RSS).     

  - EMS (Scenarios, CDL, etc): One session (perhaps 45 minutes)

  - OGSA and EGA reference architecture: One session
    - With the new OGF it may be worth to start discussing how the EGA
      work fits in.
    - Need to confirm contact with the (ex-)EGA TC 
      - (Paul Strong was the previous contact but it looks like he is
        not involved anymore)

  - Other topics depending on the July F2F results so a 'placeholder'
    session might be needed if we have to submit requests by July 7.

  - Option for a back-to-back F2F. 
    - Not clear if it will be necessary
    - A couple of possibilities for facilities are IBM (Jay) and
      Northorp Grumman (Pete Ziu) but confirmation is needed.

   ACTION: Hiro to confirm contact with (ex-)EGA TC
