OGSA Teleconference - 27 April 2006
===================================

* Participants

  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Joel Replogle (GGF)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  
  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of new actions

   ACTION: Ellen will do an example of a cluster (e.g., the glue
           cluster model) and the 'red' to 'blue' mapping for it

   ACTION: Hiro/Dave S/Jay/Ellen/... to talk offline and make a
           proposal for a summer meeting location and time, possibly
           in mid-July.


* April 24 minutes (draft 2) approved with no changes

* Webcast recap

  Webcast went well and a recording will be posted in due
  course. There were some dial-in issues and these may explain why
  there was no voice Q&A. A number of questions were submitted through
  the online system. A good percentage of registered people turned up
  and Jem's impression is that most were new to OGSA.

  Jay mentioned that sometimes people register just so that they can
  get an update email later for the recording. One idea is not to
  state in advance that a recording will be available later. 

  Also people may not eventually turn up due to the inconvenient time
  slot. Doing webcasts in two parts may help against the inconvenient
  time slot problem. For example, do just the explanation and post the
  recording. And then arrange for multiple Q&A sessions at different
  times convenient to different time zones.

  The group produced a good slide deck and it is expected that it can
  be used for other occasions. For example, Hiro is planning his
  keynote off this deck.

  Mark Linesch also attended.

  Thanks to all who took part and especially to Jem for pulling
  everything together despite the tight schedule.

* Action review

  [Only updated actions shown here.]

  - Steven Newhouse to ask Jennifer Schopf on the status of the GIN
    modeling document.
             There is no such document; delete action. (Done)

  - Ellen will do a revised visio diagram that has only the relevant
    BES attributes and JSDL attributes (base it off the
    info_model_for_BES/BES Container class)

    It is today's agenda.  File (pdf) has been uploaded.
    - Hiro asked Ellen to also upload the Visio file to gridforge.
    - Andreas will sent information to Ellen on how to attach a file
      (e.g., visio) to a pdf file to simplify uploading to
      gridforge. (Done)

  - Andreas: to finalize OGSA WSRF BP 1.0 doc and make a final call
    - An updated draft is available and should be made public within a
      few days.

* GGF17 session review
    
** Keynote

   - Hiro is planning to base his keynote on the webcast material
     after removing basic stuff and merging some slides into
     transitions.

** Information model
   - Discuss capabilities and requirements and their relation,
     including position papers.

** EMS session
   - Andreas has confirmed that NAREGI (beta) is not using
     WS-Agreement.
   - Steven N will produce a new version of the Scenarios document by
     GGF17.

** Session scheduling

   - Steven Newhouse has conflicts with both OGSA sessions. The group
     discussed re-scheduling options, including swapping times with
     other groups.
   - One session (EMS) was moved to Wednesday at 5:45 and the other
     (Information Model) to Friday at 1:45. There is now a conflict
     with RSS-WG and Joel will offer them one of the vacated OGSA
     slots on Thursday.
   
** OGSA F2F update

   Discussed options for OGSA F2F during the summer. Previously the
   group had agreed on two meetings: end of June and end of August. In
   this call there was no consensus for two meetings during the
   summer. Instead it was agreed to have a single meeting mid-July.

   ACTION: Hiro/Dave S/Jay/Ellen/... to talk offline and make a
           proposal for a summer meeting location and time, possibly
           in mid-July.

* Information model discussion

  Using the material sent out by Ellen.
  https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=42&category_id=1022&document_content_id=5403

** Slide 2

   The abstract model (in blue) is intended to be much simpler than
   the instance model (red). It is a list of capabilities of the
   container, probably described as <name, value> pairs. For example:
      <name = operatingsystem, value = redhat>
   and so on

   There was agremeent that it is desirable for resource capabilities
   (blue) and activity requirements (green) to have the same language
   (symmetrical rendering) and that the simple model (blue) should be
   generated and updated (automatically by algorithms) from the
   detailed model (red).

   The main unresolved difference is whether extensibility should be
   done using xml extensibility (as envisaged by JSDL) or by defining
   some xml (typeless) element that can express 'something' as a
   capability. One example to highlight this difference is
               <OperatingSystem> RedHat </OperatingSystem>
                                 versus
               <capability name=OperatingSystem value=RedHat>
   
   It was agreed to table the rendering issue for now.

** Slide 3

   - The concrete CIM 'stuff' gets mapped into the 'aggregated' BES
     abstract stuff
   - Note the duality of jsdl 'execution requirements': as both job
     requirements and container capabilities.
      
** Slide 4

   ACTION: Ellen will do an example of a cluster (e.g., the glue
           cluster model) and the 'red' to 'blue' mapping for it
