Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, 12th January 2007

1) Early discussion:
 
Roll call:
        Dave Berry, NeSC (Note Taker)
        Allen Luniewski, IBM
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
           
Minutes from January 5th call were approved. 
 

2) Action report


Completed actions

- Allen to accept all current changes and produce a new clean version of the architecture document.  Dave to review.
- Dave & Allen to comment on Data Access section of Architecture document
- Allen to add some suggested properties to the Data Transfer chapter of the Architecture document
- Allen to add a note saying that the create data transfer operation should check that there is sufficient space on the sink and possibly request more if possible.


New actions

- Dave to mail OGSA EMS folk about a meeting to discuss the EMS Data scenarios.
- Dave to update OGF19 session descriptions.


Ongoing actions:

- Allen and Dave to review schedule.
- Mario to flesh out discussion of structured and unstructured data access in the new section 7 and to rewrite the appendix to show the mapping.
- Chris to send out second draft of GFS scenario.
- Dave to create or reuse scenario slides for main OGSA slide set.
- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)


Sections in architecture document to be edited (plus appropriate bits to be put in appendix 3):
	Data Access – DAIS - Mario
	Data Access – ByteIO - Mario
	Cache Services – Dave
	Metadata Catalogues – Dave
 	Appendix 1 listing specs – already done?
	Appendix 2 summary of general interfaces – to be completed in final draft?
	Appendix 3 mappings to specs – to be completed in final draft?

- What about asynchronous operations and aborting requests? (Dave) (Suspend/Resume/Abort Request)


3) Progress Report.

Allen has produced a clean version of the architecture document with all changes accepted.

Dave has produced a version of scenarios document that uses same formats as the architecture document.

Mario has continued work on the data access section.  We discussed the question of how to structure the mappings in Appendix A.


4) OGF planning

We will put versions of the documents on the relevant part of GridForge later next week.

We agreed to present the documents in the first session and use the second session as a detailed working session.

Dave to mail OGSA EMS folk about a meeting to discuss the EMS Data scenarios.

Dave to update session descriptions.


5) DONM.

Friday, 19th January.  Dave sends his apologies.