Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, 10th November 2006

1) Early discussion:
 
Roll call:
            Allen Luniewski, IBM
            Stephen Davey, NeSC
            Dave Berry, NeSC (Note Taker)
            
Minutes from October 18 call were approved. 
 

2) Action report

Completed and retired actions:
- Stephen to carry on chasing Luc about the provenance scenario.
- Allen to send Data Transfer section to DMI-WG mailing list [No reply received]
- Dave to send Data Transfer section to SRM group (GSM-WG) [No reply received]
- Allen to put data transfer scenario into the scenarios document.

Ongoing actions:

- Chris to send out second draft of GFS scenario.
- Dave to create or reuse scenario slides for main OGSA slide set.
- Stephen & Dave to review scenarios doc from a storage perspective.
- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)
- Stephen to recheck/update scenarios document following F2F discussions.
- Stephen and Dave to review the EMS/Data scenario and send to Andreas.

Dave to ask OGSA WG, when creating services how do you specify:
-	Lifetime of Service
-	(Storage) Size
-	Default QoS requirements 
-	Default (security) policies
-	Service Location (on which Server say) 
-	Provisioning

Sections in architecture document to be edited (plus appropriate bits to be put in appendix 3):
	Intro (section 1) - Mario
	Data Access – Dais - Mario
	Data Access – ByteIO - Mario
	Data Description – Dave
	Cache Services – Dave
	Data Storage – Stephen
	Metadata Catalogues – Dave
 	Appendix 1 listing specs – already done?
	Appendix 2 summary of general interfaces – to be completed in final draft?
	Appendix 3 mappings to specs – to be completed in final draft?
- What about asynchronous operations and aborting requests? (Dave) (Suspend/Resume/Abort Request)

-  Dave to book OGF19 sessions.

3) Progress Report.

The DMI WG is no longer having active telcons, due to lack of participants.

Stephen is working on the data storage section of the architecture document.  He is generalising the discussion from the SRM-specific properties at present.

Allen has completed his actions but currently has less time to contribute.

Allen has written up notes about the EMS/Data scenario and sent them to Stephen.  Stephen and Dave to review the EMS/Data scenario and send to Andreas.

Dave and Mario have not had time to complete their actions.


4) GGF19 Planning

We decided to book two back-to-back sessions.  We hope that we will be able to use these to address comments on the documents.  Dave to book sessions.


5) DONM.

Friday, 17th November
No meeting 24th November