OGSA Teleconference - 18 April 2005
===================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Mark Morgan  (UVa)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  
  Apologies: Dave Snelling

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* April 11 & 13 approved with no changes
  
  - Is there a complete schedule of all OGSA teleconferences?  No,
    just for the regular calls (Mon, Wed). Hiro will look into
    providing a more complete schedule.

  - OGSA BES teleconference time, day and logistics? There was an
    announcement on the time/day on the ogsa-wg list by Andrew on
    March 31. 
    - Probably the first call will be this week. Andrew is expected to
      send out an email announcing it. Assume a duration of one hour
      for now.
    - Tom to offer his teleconference number for the BES call. (Done)

* May F2F update

  - Why is there a gap between the first part of the F2F and the Data?
    - EGEE meeting conflict. There was an announcement by Dave B on
      the list.

  - The meeting room at IC is not fixed yet. OGSA F2F typically have
    around 15 people attending so a largish room is probably
    needed. (The Access Grid room maybe too small.)

  - Hotels nearby and information about IC? 
    - Nothing about arranging a group booking at the moment.
    - The main University site is http://www.ic.ac.uk and includes
      information on how to get to the South Kensington campus.
      - From Heathrow the Heathrow Express going to Paddington (and
        then the underground), or the Piccadilly line are convenient. 
      - The nearest underground station is South Kensington.
    - Andreas will forward some information he has about Hotels from
      the November JSDL F2F. (Done)

* Profile Template

  - Reviewed minutes April 6; the last review of this document.
    - There are not a lot of issues open on this document. 
  - There is no updated version yet. Tom will do a minor revision and
    post a new version on gridforge.
  - Requesting people to review this document. It should be fairly
    easy to move it forward.

  [There is a tracker 'Profile template' already created for this document.]

* EMS area 

  BES represents a small subset of the EM area. What is the next step
  and how is the overall EM area discussion being addressed? Can Ravi
  commit time to lead the discussion?

  - Jay is trying to get people from within IBM engaged in this
    effort.
  - There is some interest in another portion of EM (CGS) from people
    in Germany.
  - Arrange time at the F2F to discuss how to move forward. [EM topic
    is already on the agenda.]

* Next call

  - Basic profile and Roadmap document review
