OGSA Teleconference - 20 June 2005
==================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Francisco Vilar Brasileiro (UFCG)
  William Huey
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Takashi Kojo (NEC)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Dejan Milojicic (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Stuart Schaefer (Softricity)
  Ayla Debora Dantas de Souza (UFCG)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Jun Tatemura (NEC)
  Pete Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

  Apologies: Jay Unger, Andrew Grimshaw

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* CDDLM  review

  The purpose of this preview is to prepare for the scheduled joint
  session at GGF14.

  CDDLM: Configuration Description, Deployment, and Lifecycle
         Management

  [Presentation available at
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/cddlm-ogsa-intro/en/1
  ]

  This WG was seeded from work done for the SmartFrog research
  project. But there have been substantial contributions from other
  sources, namely Softricity, and NEC. The schedule has been
  aggressive. It has helped that the core number of members is small.

  There is a WSDM relation especially towards the end. CDDLM uses
  WSDM. There is also a relation with CIM. But CDDLM does not use CIM
  at the moment. (A joint session is planned to explore possibilities
  further.)

  The WG has two documents towards the end of the GGF publication
  pipeline: CDDLM Foundation and SmartFrog.
 
  There is also another document recently submitted: Configuration
  Description Language (XML spec.)

  Also the WG is doing a last call within the WG on two other
  documents: Deployment API and Component model. These documents
  conclude the work the WG set out for itself.

  CDDLM-WG has kept a low profile with respect to OGSA. Mostly due to
  the tight internal schedule but also because OGSA has been in
  flux. There is an understanding that the CDDLM-WG might have to
  revisit the first versions of its specifications and revise them;
  after getting implementation experience and to make them fit in OGSA
  better.

  There are three in-house reference implementations planned by HP,
  Softricity, NEC. Also an outside one (UFCG).

  CDDLM work uses WSDM. There have been a number of problems because
  of this decision but in general the group is happy with this
  choice. There is also thinking about doing an interop, picking up on
  the WSDM interop and adding own scenarios.

  CDDLM-WG would like to place itself on the OGSA Roadmap and also
  would like to know how it fits in the bigger OGSA picture. And what
  it might have to revise later to fit better in the architecture.

  There is also a relation with OASIS SDD TC and GGF ACS-WG. There
  might be a need to refactor the CDDLM specifications to fit better
  with the work planned by these groups.

  - Is CDDLM compliant with the WSDM specification?
    - The interfaces are based on the WSDM OASIS Standard.
    - WS-Addressing and WSRF are used.
    - The main problem has been the moving target that all these specs
      pose. Also the mismatch in the version of WS-Addressing specs
      that WSDM used (3 different versions)
  - Which parts of WSRF / WSN are used?
    - Get resource property, Query resource property 
    - Base Notification
    - Resource lifetime
 
  - Joint sessions at GGF14 
   - CDDLM is most closely related to EMS.
     - BES assumes the container is already setup. But OGSA has not
       specified how that is done yet. So there is a clear point for
       CDDLM to plugin. In any case this is a good point to start the
       discussion.
   - Therefore the most appropriate OGSA sessions are sessions #4 (EMS
     Architecture, 6/28) and session #9
   - Since few people in OGSA-WG are familiar with the CDDLM work a
     high level presentation and then drilling down would be a good
     way to start.
   - These sessions would be a good opportunity to start discussing
     the position of CDDLM in OGSA.
   - CDDLM-WG also has demos that they can show OGSA-WG

   - Also OGSA is planning a number of joint sessions with WSDM. This
     would be a good time for CDDLM-WG to ask questions or put forward
     requests to WSDM. (Especially since WSDM has a F2F planned for
     the next day.)
      
  - How is CDDLM planning to proceed?
    - Working in GGF has had a number of advantages. Keeping the
      number of participants small has allowed more progress in a
      short time. It is likely that some work will continue in GGF
      CDDLM-WG but might also refine or posibly move some work to
      other places.
    - Have to work out the CIM relation as well as relation to other
      groups.

* GGF14 agenda review
  - Security session moved to 6/29; using the early bird session slot.
  - Noone on the call plans to join the GGF14 sessions by phone. Hiro
    will also ask on the list and if there is no interest he will
    *not* setup a bridge.

  - [2pm 6/29] WSDM Demo (perhaps on a blackberry or simulator)
  - There are many conflicts this time. But OGSA-WG cannot complain
    since it is using 12 sessions in total.
  - BES contact? Talk to Darren Pulsipher or Steve Newhouse; Andrew is
    on vacation.

* Roadmap document review

  - Jem has made a number of changes based on feedback he received;
    including but not limited to Hiro's and Dave B's comments.

  - l.495: "CGS:" mention probably points to SRIM work. But CGS is no
    longer active and has handed that work over to DAIS.
    > Changed CGS to DAIS
  - l.465-470: Sentence deleted as unnecessary.
  - l.560-565: SCRM-WG will be formed this week. Also expect
    WS-Naming-WG to be approved.
  - l.394: needs revision (Jem to do and check with Mark)
  - Table 4.4: GWD-R-P is wrong. It should be GWD-R.

  Action: Andreas to send Jem the link to the document that defines
          the various document types (GFD.1) (done)
  Action: Andreas to send Jem the JSDL 1.0 link. (done)

  - Information and monitoring architecture section does not have any
    dates. (Only TBD). But there will not be discussion about this
    before GGF14. Agreed to leave it as is.

  - Is there a WS-addressing 1.0 implementation? 
    - Amazon was mentioned as one company doing one.
    - IBM is doing an implementation. Also there is an Apache project
      doing an implementation.

  Action: Tom will check whether there is a public version of the
          BaseNotification 1.3

  - BaseNotification 1.3 is draft and evolving
  - BaseNotification 1.2 is draft and not evolving
  - Reviewed all entries in the master spreadsheet, corrected them and
    added comments.

  Action: Jem will work out the last remaining details. He will then
          post a cleaned up copy to gridforge, announce a final call
          (within 1-2 days) and then submit to the GGF Editor.
          - Submit to the Editor deadline is Friday
          - Final call deadline is Thursday
          - Post cleaned up copy deadline is Tuesday or Wednesday latest.

* Profile definition review 

  - Andreas confirmed with Dave S and uploaded draft 11. 
  - Accepted draft 10 changes; only new modifications show. These were
    reviewed last week and re-checked today.
  - Agreed that the Table does not have to be identical to the ones in
    the Roadmap or Profiles. It is enough to be reasonably close.

  Action: Jem will fix the table formatting, do an overall review and
          upload a new version.

  - There will be another review of this document on Wednesday
 
* WSRF Basic Profile 1.0 review

  - The big change is in Appendix C.
  - Appendix A has also been updated
  - Appendix B: the extensibility points have been updated
  - Left the reference to  BaseNotification to 1.2 
    - But will update to show changes to 1.3

  - l.450: cleanup
  - l.395: Latha posted a comment about confusion around MUST/SHOULD
           usage. (The intention is not to encourage the use of
             UseNotify. But this will change again with the update to
             1.3.)
  
  - If there is a public version of BaseNotification the BP will be
    updated to refer to 1.3 draft

  - Security followup (Marty's comment): Frank to provide some
    informative text. Otherwise waiting for followup during public
    comment.

  - Security writeup issue: Tom will confer with Takuya and update the
    specificaion.

  - A new version will be uploaded over the next couple of days.
  - A final review will be done at the next call (Wednesday).
  
* GGF14 preparation

  - Jem will put some slides together for a Roadmap presenation.
  
* Next call 

  - WSRF Basic Profile and Profile Definition final review
  - GGF14 preparation
