OGSA Teleconference - 2 March 2005
==================================

* Participants

  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Allen Luniewski (IBM)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Takuya Mori (NEC, ANL)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* No minutes available
  
* Minor change to the GGF13 schedule to add the teleconference
  information

* Discussion generated from Tony Hey's article 

  - Agreed to timebox (10 minutes) this discussion so that it would
    not take over the entire call.

  - Two stack interoperability problem?
    - It is a problem if we end up with different message protocols
    - Important to describe how the two stacks interroperate (one more
      analogy given: driving a car either on the left or the right
      side of the road)
  - It might be possible to write code that is agnostic but must make
    a choice about the wire format when running it on the grid.
  - Migration and co-existence are important issues. They should/could
    be addressed incrementally in later versions of the standards as
    they evolve (e.g., WSRF 2.0)
  - The article's point is that it is not possible to decide which is
    the right choice at the lower level at this moment; wait and see
    while defining things at a higher level in an independent manner;
    and follow the winner later.
    - Also possible to choose one approach and map to the other with
      some overhead
    - The suggested approach does not really solve the problem because
      it does not reach a common standard
  - Concern further clarified that building up an infrastructure by
    making the wrong choice (OGSI raised as an example) might end up
    messing up application code that is built specifically for it.

  - End of timebox; followup on the list.

* Basic Profile review

  The latest draft is on gridforge:
  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/draft-ggf-ogsa-basic-profile/en/3
  Aka: draft-ggf-ogsa-basic-profile-008

  [Unassigned actions belong to Tom by default.]

** Front matter

  - Last line of "Status": This is a recommendation document so
    delete "...does not define any standards..."
  - Abstract:
    - l.4: There is a WS-I citation but no reference. Clarified that
      WS-1.1 is implied and will be referenced. (Tom to revise)
    - "Guided by these principlies" what does "these" refer to:
      > "interroperability, interaction" (Tom to revise)
    - Why is there no mention of WS-Resource?
      - In an earlier review agreed that the Profile is only
        discussing the WS-Addressing embodiment. 
      - But there is a normative reference to WS-Resource. It should
        be removed (Tom to revise)
    - Also need to refer to Profile template document (Tom to revise)

** 1 Introduction

   - Pending action on WS-I copyright issues: 
     - Tom & Hiro will follow up with their companies' representatives
       on whether the introductory text can be re-used as is or
       whether it has to be rewritten.

   - Suggestion to add a short (historical) paragraph on OGSI.
     - Rejected. No need to refer to OGSI.

*** 1.2 Relationships

   - To add the relationship to Basic Security profile as well.

*** 1.3 Notational conventions

   - UDDI namespace is not needed. Delete.
   - Other namespaces that are not used for normative statments should
     also be deleted (xsi, soap, ...)

*** 1.4 Profile identification

  - Discussion on Profile 'name', versioning and what profile
    instance definition.
    - Note 'name' does not include the 'version' so the example given
      is correct.
    - Since a conformance URI (2.4) will also be defined consider
      doing the versioning definition just on the URI (or in
      conjunction) to avoid the need for similar versioning
      explanation appearing more than once.

** 2 Profile Conformance

*** 2.2 Targets

    The new ones (introduced by this profile) are ENDPOINTREFERENCE
    and RESOURCE. The rest come from the WS-I BP 1.1.

*** 2.3 Scope

    - It is stated that "extensions...when identified in the
      Profile..."
      - So what does it mean if an extension in a referenced spec is
        not identified in the profile?
      - There seems to be a minor gap in this explanation. [It is
        copied from the WS-I Profile explanation.]
      - The intention is, however, to list all relevant extensibility
        points from the referenced specs in the profile.

** 3 Addressing

   After the F2F Tom split off most of the text here to a separate
   document in anticipation of a separate Naming profile.

   - Discussed whether to move the remaining statement to the Naming
     profile or not. The consensus that those dealing with ServiceName
     and portType could be left here but the rest should go.
   - Tom will make this a tracker and revisit.

** 4 Resource Property

   - Description requirement on getmultipleproperties / query
     - This is already a recorded issue.

** 5 Resource Lifetime

   There has been some discussion but no firm conclusion on the
   destroy / resource destruction issue yet. It is recorded as an
   issue and will be revisited.

**  ServiceGroup 

    Tom has deleted this section as agreed at the F2F. 

** 6 Notification

   No change.

** 7 Base Faults

   Tom added text that requires use of the structure, as agreed.

** 8 Security

   Dave S is not on the call. Postponed.

* Basic Profile Tracker review

** Review of tracker setup

  Reviewed new tracker status values and discussed other configuration
  issues.

  It seems that only a person with OGSA-WG administrator rights can
  close an artifact on this tracker. Considered changing this but
  agreed it is good form in order to make sure that changes are
  properly verified before a tracker is closed.

  Use of priorities: To capture what to work on next; so it can (and
  should) be updated to boost the visibility of issues that become
  more important.

** Artifact review

   Spend about half an hour going through all artifacts updating them
   as necessary. For details refer to the BP tracker.

   Agreed that issues relating to Naming will be moved to a new
   tracker once the Naming profile draft becomes an independent (and
   publicly visible) document. 
   > Andreas will take care of the transition.
