OGSA Teleconference - February 2, 2004
======================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Takashi Kojo  (NEC)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Dejan Milojicic (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)

  Apologies: Frank Siebenlist, Bill Horn, Jem Treadwell

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of actions

  Action: Dejan to answer questions/issues from the previous
          OGSA-CDDLM teleconference on the ogsa list.
  Action: Dejan to participate by phone during the OGSA-F2F CDDLM
          session if possible.
  Action: Takashi/Dejan to use OGSA (PE) terminology as much as
          possible. Initially it may be a good idea to add OGSA terms
          in parenthesis.
  Action: Hiro to send out PE document link > Done.
  Action: In the [CDDLM Discussion] make clearer the involvement of
          each CDDLM service.

  Reminder: CDDLM group (Takashi) has an action to provide text for
            the OGSA document.

* Early Discussion

* Minutes from last week approved with no changes.

* F2F preparation
  
  - Agenda updated to reflect last call's discussion
  - Expected number of participants: 10-15
  - Call-in bridge will be available according to GGF rules.

* Agenda Bashing

  No quorum. Agreed to re-schedule detailed discussion at a later
  time.

  Action: Dejan to answer questions/issues from the previous
          OGSA-CDDLM teleconference on the ogsa list.

  - The next available slot is the F2F (CDDLM slot is already
    scheduled).

  Action: Dejan to participate by phone during the OGSA-F2F CDDLM
          session if possible.

* [CDDLM Discussion]

** Make correspondence with OGSA clearer by using OGSA (PE)
   terminology as much as possible, e.g.,
       Job management -> Job manager
       Resources -> Grid resources
  
  Action: Takashi/Dejan to use OGSA (PE) terminology as much as
          possible. Initially it may be a good idea to add OGSA terms
          in parenthesis.

  Action: Hiro to send out PE document link > Done.

**  [p3] It might be clearer to break down 'Deployment' box (interface
    arrows). As shown it covers all 3 CDDLM services (p34 of
    foundation document)

    If kept as one box then the 3 different services should also be
    described separately.

    (Some discussion on whether compilation may be a 4th
    functionality but not necessarily a service.)


    Action: In the [CDDLM Discussion] make clearer the involvement of
            each CDDLM service.

    Reminder: CDDLM group (Takashi) has an action to provide text for
              the OGSA document.

* References
  [CDDLM Discuccion]
  https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=130&category_id=550&document_content_id=1679

  [CDDLM Foundation]
  https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=130&category_id=550&document_content_id=1679

