OGSA Teleconference - 11 October 2007 - Service Level Terms
===========================================================

* Participants

  Donal Fellows (UMAN)
  Steve McGough (Imperial)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  ZackK
  
  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Approved OGF20 BoF minutes with no changes
* Approved June 14 minutes with no changes
* Approved Aug. 15 F2F minutes with no changes
* Reviewed actions; no progress
* Discussed terms defined in the RSS spec as they are applicable to
  this work
* Discussed the recently published Amazon S3 SLA terms
* Reviewed OGF20 BoF presentation on gridforge. Some of the discussion
  there seems overly complex
* Discussed agenda of SLT session scheduled for next Friday as part of
  OGF21 OGSA F2F

  Agreed that it should be a discussion of use cases. People who have
  promised use cases will be asked to write them down during the
  session, if they don't bring any material with them.
