OGSA Teleconference February 20, 2004
=====================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  David Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jeffrin Von-Reich (HP)

* Summary of Actions

  Action: Hiro to re-schedule document re-organization for next week.
  Action: Hiro to update schedule (for remaining 4! calls until GGF10)
  Action: Hiro to put GGF10 session plan online.

  Action: Jeffrin to divide and assign work.
  Action: Jeffrin to followup with Andrew Grimshaw on using professional
          proofreader.

  Action: Dave to ask CeC what is the best document type for OGSA UC document.

* Agenda bashing

  - Document re-organization was scheduled for today but some key people
    not attending. Postponed.

  Action: Hiro to re-schedule document re-organization for next week.
  Action: Hiro to update schedule (for remaining 4! calls until GGF10)

  - GGF10 
    - Opening talk: Still trying to confirm Jeff Nick.
    - GGF session schedule/owner discussed at F2F. Updated version
      should be online on gridforge. 

  Action: Hiro to put GGF10 session plan online.

* UC document

  - As discussed at F2F:
    - 4 volunteers to review finished UCs.
    - Split the work.
    - Do technical review first and then do english review (using
      Andrew's proofreader hopefully).

  Action: Jeffrin to divide and assign work.
  Action: Jeffrin to followup with Andrew Grimshaw on using professional
          proofreader.

  - Deadline Feb 26 for all content update.
    - No GGF deadline (as far as we know)
    - UC document is going to the GGF Editor so GGF deadline is not
      important (but we want to submit it for GGF).
    - Document type: Currently it is "Community Practice." 
      - Not sure it this is right. Maybe "Informational?" 

  Action: Dave to ask CeC what is the best document type for OGSA UC document.

  - As agreed during the F2F, incomplete UCs (@Feb'26) will be split
    out in a separate document and merged back in at a later stage.

* Updated Teleconference schedule
  
   Move doc re-org next week; 23 or 26.

  - 2/23: no use case; leave the rest
  - 2/26: WS-Naming (only)
  - 3/1:  Security, use case (content review; send for english review
          after this)
  - 3/4:  GGF10 preparation, producer/consumer

  Agreed to drop Management and Logging discussion from the schedule.
