OGSA Teleconference - 19 September 2005
=======================================

* Participants

  Pete Ziu (Northrop Grumman)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Tom Maguire (EMC)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Allen Luniewski (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Apologies: Ellen Stokes

  Minutes: Andreas Savva
  
* No teleconference minutes approved

* F2F Update

   - Jay has booked two rooms at the IBM facility for Oct. 6 and 7.
     - A large room that can accomodate about 20 people and smaller
       room for about 10 people.

  - OGSA-WG has to provide a list of attendees so that the local
    security arrangement (badgets) can be completed. The information
    needed is
    - Name, Company

  - The IBM facility is on the other side of the river from the GGF15
    site. It is *not* within easy walking distance. It is a short
    taxi, or bus ride away.
    - Address: 1 Roger St., Cambridge, MA
  
  Actions: 
   - Hiro will do a survey to collect attendee names
   - Hiro will collect all information and put together an agenda (to
     include a map)

  Scheduling requests:
  - Frank has to leave Thursday afternoon, and has a conflict on
    Thursday morning (OGSA AUthZ session is scheduled for 11am). The
    plan is to try an move the AuthZ session to Wednesday.
  - Takuya also cannot attend the Thursday meeting
  - A number of other people can only attend Thursday.

** F2F Agenda

    - EMS is planned for Thursday
    - The Information Model discussion in planned for Thursday
      afternoon (Andrea W will be dialling in)
    - Agreed to add OGSA 1.5 review on Friday.

* GGF15 Update
        
  Both OGSA sessions are on Monday Oct.3.

* OGSA Roadmap 1.0

  The Roadmap has been published (assigned number 53). The document is
  not linked on the GGF site yet.

* OGSA & Glossary 1.5 Update

** Status update

   - Infrastructure: Waiting for an initial draft
   - EMS:  Waiting for an initial draft
   - Data:  Waiting for an initial draft this week
   - RM: First draft received
   - Information:  Waiting for an initial draft this week
   - Self-management: No update expected

   The work is behind schedule. The next target is to put together a
   draft for review at the F2F after GGF15. Section owners should
   provide updated drafts by GGF15.

   Andreas will start sending update emails to the list.

** RM draft review

   - Minor changes mainly to fix deprecated terminology. 
   - Also added clarification on resource (physical and logical)
   - And some text on multiple basic profiles

   - Confirmed that OGSA 1.5 is a maintenance release and should be
     updated with work already done. So there will probably be no
     further changes in this section since the work focus will shift
     to Profiling.

** Infrastructure proposal review

   - Discussed Jem two approaches on revising this section. Agreed to
     put more text on the basic profile including the possibility to
     change the title of the section.

** Glossary review

   - Added client
   - Deleted CMM
   - Added Data Model: Also to add RFC3444 reference
   - Added Information Model: changed operators to administrators
   - Agreed to delete OGSI (also delete from Architecture document)
   - Added profile 
   - Deprecate 'resource model' term

* Basic Security profile - Secure channel review

  Reviewed draft posted by Takuya.

  - Changed title to use OGSA(tm)
  - Revised Abstract to make it focused on security
  - Revised Relationship with other profiles to focus on security
  - Removed unused targets from the Conformance Targets section
    - But introduced some namespaces not listed in the table above; to
      add.
  - Need to add the 'generic' basic OGSA security claim URI defined in
    the OGSA BP. Each security profile conformant to OGSA Basic
    Security has to define two claim uris.

  - Takuya to follow up on distinction between ssl and tls.
  
  - R0301: Takuya sent out an email but there was not a lot of
    discussion on the list yet.
    - Hiro commented on the list that the sender will also be a
      receiver in many cases. As such everyone will have to implement
      both TLS and MLS.
      - Explored what this means, whether it is true in general or
        whether there are some special cases (notification) which
        could be covered with different text.
      - Takuya repeated that his intention is to place this
        requirement for interoperability
      - Hiro repeated that this seems to place too much on the
        implementation of the RECEIVER
      - Discussed how likely it is that both TLS and MLS are going to
        be implemented by the same service. It was noted that GT
        implements both.
        - There are tradeoffs in using TLS or MLS and there are also
          performance or architectural implications. As such saying
          that both must be required for interoperability does not
          seem quite right.
        - TLS is more common than MLS.
        - Considered options such as splitting this profile into 2
          more focused ones (TLS and MLS) and another one that allows
          a choice of one or the other. Also considered mandating TLS
          and recommending MLS.
        - (It was noted that the initial text allowed the option of
          one or the other or none.)
        - Agreed that the decision on what to require should be based
          on industry requirements as well as the requirements of
          other projects. 
        - Agreed to try and get some feedback from companies/projects
          by next week Wed.
          - Hiro to get some feedback from within FJ.

     - Since this issue will take time to reach consensus agreed to
       submit the OGSA Basic Profile next week and not wait for the
       completion of the security profiles.
  
     - Sec.3.5 first sentence needs revision
     - R0324: Review Basic profile and check what is the requirement on
           RECEIVER. Perhaps this should be phrased differently than
           for the SENDER role.

    - Agreed to move Ian from Author to Contributors. He is listed as
      an Author only because this document used the WSRF BP doc as a
      starting point.
    - Takuya to ask Tom if he wants to be listed as a co-author or as
      contributor.
    - Add WS-Addressing and WSRF BP to the table.

  Takuya to make necessary revisions and also incorporate Jem's edits.

* Basic Security profile - Anonymous channel review

   - Hiro and Andreas pointed out that they expected the Anonymous
     channel to be much looser than simply changing the MUSTs of the
     Secure Channel to SHOULDs.

   - Discussion postponed due to insufficient time.

* Next calls

  - Agreed to move the AuthZ discussion to Sep.28
  - Agreed to add the ResourceMetadataDescriptor editor discussion on
    Wed or Mon agendas.
  - Next call is EMS