Minutes from the August 16th teleconference: 


1) Early discussion:

Roll call:
	Chris Jordan (SDSCC)
	Dave Berry, NeSC
	Allen Luniewski, IBM(Note Taker)
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Stephen Davey, NeSC
	
Minutes from July 26 call were Approved. 

2) Action report

	New actions:
	1. Allen to add Tracker asking for diagram consistency in both documents
	2. Stephen to invite the Storage folks (Peter Clarke) to the Data WG F2F
		session on Storage
	3. Allen/Stephen to publish the agenda for the face to face to the OGSA
		Data list when the agenda is ready.

	Ongoing actions:
	- Dave to remind OGSA WG to comment on our documents.
		DONE
	- Allen to mail Hiro to request discussion of joint EMS/Data scenarios
		on an OGSA call.
		DONE
	- Chris to send out second draft of GFS scenario.
	- All WG members to review latest version of architecture document.
	- Stephen to carry on chasing Luc about the provenance scenario.
	- ?? Create or reuse scenario slides for main OGSA slide set.
	- Stephen & Dave to review scenarios doc from a storage perspective.
	- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)

3) Review of current progress
	Holidays have resulted in little progress on either document in the
		past few weeks.


4) Planning for F2F
	- The Data WG is scheduled for August 28-30 in Edinburgh.  A detailed
		agenda will be published soon.  Please contact Dave and Allen if
		you plan to attend.
	- The F2F will be focused on driving interface definitions into the
		two documents.  We will do this by first agreeing on a method
		for describing interfaces then work one section of the architecture
		document in detail.  We will then do a breath first walk through
		the document to discuss what needs to be done in each section.
		The remainder, and hopefully bulk, of the meeting will be spent
		working interface descriptions for each section of the document.
	- It was agreed that getting quality interface descriptions completed
		for part of the architecture document was more important than
		getting something done in all parts of the document.
	- We agreed to be flexible with the agenda in order to meet the above
		goal.
	- The regularly scheduled WG teleconference on August 30 will coincide
		with a summary session for the F2F.


5) Next Call:

The next teleconference of the OGSA Data Architecture working group will
be on Wednesday 23'd August at the usual time of 8:00am Pacific /
11:00am Eastern / 4:00pm UK / 5:00pm Europe.  This will be used to discuss
final plans for the Edinburgh F2F.

Here is the teleconference information: 

UK dialin: 0845 245 0224
US dialin: 1 866 838 0046
Intl dialin: +44 1452 542309

Passcode: 275359