======================================================================
ACS Teleconference 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: June 22 20:00-21:15 EDT 2005 / June 23 9:00-10:15 JST, 2005
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Tom Studwell (IBM)
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
  Sachiko Wada (ASCADE) - minutes
------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Review of the minutes for the last call. 
   Minutes approved.

* Draft writing schedule by GGF14.
   We agreed to write text about the following issues and discuss them 
   at the GGF14 sessions, and then merge them into the ACS draft document
   after approved.
    - Glossary definition refinement. (KF) - Posted.
    - Security/Signature discussion for ACS (Mike/Pete)
    - Repository interface detail, (KF) - Posted.
    - CDDLM sequence (Sachiko) - Posted.
     Keisuke posted the sequence diagram to the CDDLM ml and got response
     from Steve which is talking much about the case 1 (CDLLM stand alone case).
     Steve also mentioned about JSR 277. JSR 277 puts focus on JAR but we can
     share the objectives. We should keep eyes on it.
     http://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=277
    - AAF/SDD refactor (Tom)
     Lower in priority than the Repository Interface.
    - Data transport/event notification (TBA)
     The topic is which standards can apply to which parts of our spec.
     Tom can ask Susan Malaika who is a co-chair of INFOD-WG to attend our 
     session or make comments.
 Action: All to review the already posted materials (Glossary, ARI spec,
      ARI diagrams) and make comment if any.
 Action: Tom, to present the proposed direction about the SDD/AAF convergence.
 Action: Pete, to prepare the material on signature for the sessions.
 Action: Mike, to get input from the security expertises for the sessions.
 Action: Tom, to arrange/prepare the material for data transport discussion.
 Action: Keisuke, to confirm the CDDLM team to join the session.

* Pre-session meeting
  Agreed to have pre-session meeting to discuss about Security, ARI Interface, 
  and so on.
 Date: Jun 28 (Tue) 12:00 p.m.
 Rendezvous: lobby, Westin Hotel

* Updates
 Action: Tom to close his action items by next week.   

* Next call
 No telconf next week.
 The schedule after GGF14 will be discussed at the session.
