Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, 13th April 2007

1) Early discussion:
 
* Roll call 

Dave Berry, NeSC (Note taker)
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Allen Luniewski, IBM

The minutes were approved.
 

2)  Action report
 

* Completed actions

[Allen] revise the way we use the term dataset and upload the modified document to GridForge.

[Dave] discuss "data resource" definition with OGSA WG.

[Allen] Update the dates on the group charter.

[Allen and Dave] to review schedule.


* New actions

[Dave]  Create tracker to define Data Resource, Data Access, Data Transfer, Source and Sink. and to add note to documents saying that resources are by default data resources.

[Dave]  Inform OGSA WG of our new tracker.

[Dave]  Prepare foils for OGF20.


* Ongoing actions
 
[Dave] mail Simon to clarify the "classify" operation on metadata catalogues.

[Chris] send out second draft of GFS scenario.
 
[Dave]  to create or reuse scenario slides for main OGSA slide set.
 
 
* To be added to the trackers
 
[Mike] Section 12 - Metadata Catalogue and Replication - needs to be worked on
[Mario] Describe the semantics of destruction of services/data in the early section. The service has to define it's semantics.
[Mario] Include a paragraph in the Appendix setting the context and scope of each of the specs.
[Mario] Use the data access patterns to motivate the data access section.
[Mario] In the data access section, the create operation needs to be scoped down.  Maybe break it down into separate operations.
 
[?] The glossary needs to be updated.
[?] The cache section needs to be completed.
 
[?] Appendix 1 listing specs – already done?
[?] Appendix 2 summary of general interfaces – to be completed in final draft?
[?] Appendix 3 mappings to specs – to be completed in final draft?
 
[Dave] to revise the EMS/Data scenarios
 
[?] Add Data Caching scenario
[?] Add Data Warehousing scenario
[Dave] Add Metadata Catalogue scenario
 
[?] Incorporate Avaki and Oracle scenarios as motivation.
 
[Dave] What about asynchronous operations and aborting requests? (Suspend/Resume/Abort Request)


3) Progress report

Allen reviewed Chapter 2.  He suggests that it needs a significant reorganisation.  We discussed the possibilities.


4) OGF20

We confirmed the current description of the session.


5) Dates


The dates for public comment etc. on the group charter are well out of date.  We agreed to move them back by a year(!), much to our disappointment.


6) DONM

4th May 2007

