Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, May 31st 2006 


1) Early discussion

* Roll call

Dave Berry, NeSC (note taker)
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Chris Jordan, SDSC
Stephen Davey, IBM

The minutes and agenda were approved.
 

2) Action report

- Stephen to post his version of architecture document with the description of SRM functions to Mario & Chris [Done]
- Stephen to chase Luc about the provenance scenario [This is progressing]
- Everyone to prepare for review of arch doc [Done]

- Chris to draft GFS scenario [Ongoing]
- Stephen & Dave to review scenarios doc from a storage perspective.
- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)
- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.
- Section authors review security aspects of their sections.


3) Architecture document review (45 minutes)

Dave to contact OGSA WG about the dates in the roadmap document.

Sections 2.2, 2.9 and 2.10 should be more strongly linked, e.g. by replacing section 2.2 with sections 2.9 and 2.10.

Someone needs to think about the role of protocols, e.g. at various levels, OGSA base profile, data transfer...

Possibly move section 3 to the end.

Section 6 should have an outline about the architecture of the transfer.

https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-d-wg/document/Strawman-Archite
cture_V.6.0.4/en/1




4) Wrap up (5 minutes)

F2F date

Topics for future meetings
June 7 - Review new scenarios.
June 14 - Review scenarios doc.
