OGSA Teleconference - 11 October 2007 - Workflow
================================================

* Participants

  Donal Fellows (UMAN)
  Steve McGough (Imperial)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Bahareh Rahmanzadeh
  ZackK
  
  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Approved Aug. 9 minutes with no changes
* Approved Aug. 14 F2F minutes with no changes
* Reviewed actions; no progress
* Steve uploaded to gridforge the workflow questionnaire proposed at
  the F2F by Steven Newhouse
* Reviewed the workflow questionnaire and added some candidates for
  providing feedback

  ACTION: Donal and Steve will contact the people identified to
          provide feedback for the questionnaire

* OGF21 Workflow session
  - This session could be a review of the collected responses
  - Hopefully 2-3 responses can be put together by the session. Try to
    talk to people at OGF21 to collect more feedback

