OGSA Teleconferences - 28 April 2004
====================================

* Participants

  Abdeslem Djaoui (RL)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Chris Smith (Platform)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Apologies: Ian Foster, Bill Horn, Jem Treadwell, Latha Srinivasan

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Early discussion

** Telecon minutes Apr 26, 2004: no comments, approved

* May F2F

  - Ian's offer for dinner at his house
    - This is a very kind offer.
    - Unfortunately there is no quorum in this call to make a
      decision.
      - (Fred was the only one to indicate a different preference.)
  
  Action: Hiro to consult F2F participants and inform Ian as soon as
          possible.

* GGF11 update

  No update.

* OGSA glossary

  Skip this time.

* Information services (IS) discussion

  - Based on Abdeslem's text responding to two issues in the GGF10
    minutes. 
    (Ref: http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2004/04/msg00117.html)

** Relation with WS-N

   - Producer/Consumer defining higher level functionality; can be
     extension of WS-N.
   - Discussion on composability as implementation concept (so it is
     always possible).
   - From a user perspective registry and schema can be hidden.
   - From OGSA perspective registry and schema can (should?) be
     standardized.

** Producer/Consumer

   - What kind of data is carried determined by (some published)
     schema 
     - Data does not have to conform to single schema; multiple
       schemas can be used.
     - It depends on the data each producer sends out

   - Current proposal is for specific solution or a pattern?
     - Usage of pattern to provide solution for information
       publication and querying
     - Define common services

   - Producer/consumer can be foundation for all information services,
     including logging?
     - Initialy thought so. But on the assumption that only the
       capabilities of producer/consumer would be used.
     - It became clear that a logging solution might require different
       capabilities and would therefore have to be built differently.
       - (Or included capabilities in IS might not be needed for
         logging and so might be seen as heavyweight for a logging
         solution.)
       - (Bill is not on the call but it looks like that Logging at
         the moment is on top of notification.)
   
   - Trying to define OGSA services that are also applicable to
     solutions like MDS
     - See OGSA services as virtualization of MDS or RGMA and are able
       to interoperate if they are OGSA compliant

   - Though it is true that everything can be put in such an
     information service, it is not useful to say that 'anything' can
     be put in. Need some consensus on what kind of artifact can be
     put in.

   - PE scenario & requirements
     - Submit a JSDL document specifying job resource requirements
     - Resource publishes its information (and held in IS); does not
       necessarily match JSDL directly.
     - PE CCGS would try to find matching resources based on
       information in IS
     - But description might be different so someone must reason about
       these.

     - Requirement is support for unstructured data where we don't
       know in advance what things are (this is one scenario)
       - Even if there is a schema (everyone may have one) does not
         help much
       - Relational model does not necessarily fit since the data
         structure is not known a priori.
       - Want to put in unstructured data and then do 'unstructured'
         search.
         - It is ok to call these "schemas" as long as we understand
           that there are going to be a lot of them and that they can
           change over time.

** Relation with Information Dissemination (INFO-D) group

  - Seems like Information Dissemination proposal is overlapping with
    some of the stuff in IS
    - Relation may become clearer after Friday's Data call.
    - Both Abdeslem and INFO-D representatives will be participating.

** Plans for OGSA document (IS)

   - Update OGSA document or wait for discussion to settle down?
     - Would prefer not to have lots of similar sections so look at
       the contributions and work through commonalities first

   - Agreed not to rewrite for F2F but decide at F2F on direction and
     how to put things together.
        
* P.E. services discussion

  - Document sent out is a substantial rewrite, especially the
    introductory part.
  - Resources in 3 categories
  - Common definition pattern (in 4 sections)
  - Terminology
    - Naming
      - SH: service handle (used to be GSH)  (abstract name)
      - SA: Service Address (used to be GSR)
      - Proposal to use "Resource Handle" rather than "Service Handle" to
        fit with WS-Resource (WSRF)

    - Changed "vault" to "data container" to align with container.

  - Provisioning definition deferred until Provisioning discussion
    settles down
  - Some explanation added to typical scenario; not for more detailed
    stuff.
  - Some text at the end has not been worked through yet.

  ** Read and provide feedback by May 10 LATEST (Monday before F2F) **
  
  - Andrew to continue working on it; arranging to get feedback from
    other people (review with Jay).

* AOB

** Provisioning

   - Jay has sent a substantial revision to the provisioning
     definition document to Hiro. It is ok to share this document with
     everyone.
   
   Action: Hiro/Andreas to upload Jay's provisioning document to
           gridforge and send out pointer to the list.

   - Review and use as input to Provisioning discussion at F2F.

** Wednesday's CMM/Core discussion

   - Heather may be able to attend the F2F (on Tuesday?).
     - (Heather also thinking of having a working discussion at GGF11;
       nothing scheduled yet.)
   - Pending internal (IBM) approval.
   - If approval is given Jay may have some material to go over during
     Wednesday's call.