==============================================================================
ACS Teleconference 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Date and Time: Apr 26 20:00-21:25 EST 2006 / Apr 27 9:00-10:25 JST 2006
Participants:
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu) - minutes
  Peter Ziu (Northrop)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Role call, note taker & time keeper, agenda bashing. (5 min)
2. ACS Spec. 1.0 Public Comments Results (10 min)
  - Reviewed changes in the cover page.
  - Reviewed Section 5.1 and 5.2
     Mike pointed out that it is not clear if the client get NotReady state 
    before moving to Ready state. Keisuke will clarify this point in the text.
     Modification of the state diagram is agreed, to delete the lower arrow 
    starting from the initial state to the Ready state.
     Pete pointed out that number of pending asynchronous operations can be a 
    Resource Property. We agreed that we leave it to the implementation 
    decision to add a Resource Property for this. There may be lots more 
    which can be additionally provided by implementations.
     State of the Application Repository itself is not discussed in the 
    document, but it depends on the ACS Repository operational state; if the 
    repository started up, then it is in operational state. If it is shutted 
    down, then it is in non-operational state.
  -  No other outstanding issue at this moment. Please post comments or 
    suggestions if you have any after the call.

  - Expecting completion of revision in April, addressing all comments
    except for those involves future extension. We will submit a revision
    and make response to the comments.
  - Second revision addressing to the public comments are uploaded
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/acs-wg/document/draft-ggf-acs-spec-1.0-re
vised/en/
   It's under the "Working Draft" folder that I created:
   Application Contents Service WG : Document Manager : Current Drafts : 
Working Drafts
  - Comments can viewable at below link:
https://forge.gridforum.org/forum/forum.php?forum_id=592

3. GGF17 session (10 min)

   No objection raised to cancel the acs session at GGF17 and to have one at 
GGF18.

4. Updates (5 min)
    OASIS SDD TC will have F2F meeting during May 15-17. I will attend the
    meeting and give them introduce Application Archive Format part of our
    specification.
    
    Pete might be able to join the SDD F2F meeting. 

5.  Wrap up, Next meeting(5 min)
