OGSA Teleconference - 10 April 2008, OGSA Workshop
==================================================

Attendees
---------
  Mark Morgan (minute taker)
  Ellen Stokes
  Narfi Stefansson
  Andrew Grimshaw
  Steven Newhouse
  Andreas Savva

* Minutes from Monday, April 7, 2008, approved.
* Andrew added phone numbers for workshop next week
* Andrew would like a better idea of which questions to ask next week.
        - Programming Abstractions
        - Fault tolerance
        - I/O environment
        - People should think of questions on the way in to the meeting.
* Steven suggested not questioning to great detail how things will be
  provided or done since the users might not have the answers
* AI:  Andrew to modify wiki page to reflect that all questions should be
           written up before people leave.
* AI:  Andrew to distill down usecase from Cancer Grid people
