OGSA Teleconference - Roadmap - 18 June 2007
============================================

* Participants

  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Mark Morgan (UVA)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  ZackK

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Minutes, June 4, approved with no changes

* Summary New Actions

  AI-0618a: Chris J will update WS-Naming table to reflect the new
            status (implemented)

  AI-0618b: The figure in Appendix A needs some rework. In particular
            delete WS-BaseNotification 1.3 from the WSRF box and
            format the text boxes (WSRF, WSN) so that they are both in
            'foundation' or outside

  AI-0618c: Chris J will add and assign a tracker artifact to check
            the status of all documents

* Review of Action Items

  - AI-0402d: Updated table in latest draft. Closed.
  - AI-0416a: Calling these interoperable is too early; leave as is; Closed
  - AI-0416b: Chris J contacted Andrew; it is implemented. 

    AI-0618a: Chris J will update WS-Naming table to reflect the new
              status (implemented)

  - AI-0416c: Still open. Andreas will revert entry to 1.0 and add
              current work (extensions) as part of this entry
  - AI-0416d: Done; Closed.
  - AI-0416e: Not confirmed yet
  - AI-0416f: Donal indicated that he would like to add RSS. There has
              not been further progress however.
  - AI-0604a: Changed to SOAP; Closed
  - AI-0604b: Capitalized to Web services; Closed
  - AI-0604c: Closed

  AI-0618b: The figure in Appendix A needs some rework. In particular
            delete WS-BaseNotification 1.3 from the WSRF box and
            format the text boxes (WSRF, WSN) so that they are both in
            'foundation' or outside

* Review of Trackers

  - artf5842: Hiro will talk with Andrew and Duane to produce this
              section; Pending
  - artf5843: Hiro will talk with Dave S and Paul
  - artf5850: Moved to Pending
  - artf5851: Moved to Resolved
  - artf5646: There are a couple of nits with the Figure in Appendix
              A; Leave at Resolved
  - artf5825: Not reviewed yet; leave at Resolved

* Document Review

  Hiro mentioned that a number of documents have been published since
  the last review.
  - OGSA EMS Architecure, HPC Use Cases, ByteIO, etc

  AI-0618c: Chris J will add and assign a tracker artifact to check
            the status of all documents

  Andreas proposed that a deadline should be agreed on to fix the
  content of version 1.1 and submit it to the OGF Editor

  Agreed to the following plan:
  - Keep the planned calls as they are
  - Close all actions and artifacts by next call
  - June 30 as the cutoff date for adding specs etc
  - Issue a final call by July 30 and submit version 1.1 to OGF Editor
    at the August F2F
