OGSA Teleconference - December 18, 2003
=======================================

* Participants

  Theo Dimitrakos (RL)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva


* Summary of actions from this call

  - Action: Hiro to update and repost the teleconference schedule.  
  - Action: Hiro and Andreas volunteer to go through document,
            pick out the comments that are still valid and delete the
            obsolete ones.
  - Action: Revisit the "owner" discussion.
  - Action: Frank and Takuya to come up with a simple use case
          (perhaps a component of the Commercial Center one) and
          express it using Frank's terminology.
  - Action: Need more use cases (1 or 2) >Frank
  - Action: Andrew to look into providing a data use case (access across
            organizational boundaries)
  - Action: Andrew to give an introduction to the Legion model
                Focus on authorization aspect (not the authentication
                aspect) 
           - Hiro to schedule it keeping in mind that Andrew cannot
             commit to doing it before Jan 23.

* Early discussion

** PE discussion minutes (2003/12/15) - approved

** Information & Monitoring minutes

   - Approval postponed as minutes are not available yet. (Andreas
     apologized for the delay)

** Teleconf schedule changes

  - Agreed to swap CMM and Comments teleconferences. 

  - Action: Hiro to update and repost the teleconference schedule.

  - Andrew pointed out that some comments may be obsolete due to
    changes in the document. No point spending time on a
    teleconference trying to decide what is valid and what is not.

  - Action: Hiro and Andreas volunteer to go through document,
            pick out the comments that are still valid and delete the
            obsolete ones.

** AOB - None.

* Security discussion

  - Went through Frank's and Takuya's presentations.

** "Guidelines for use case specification" (Frank Siebenlist)

   URL: https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/usecase-formal/en/1

   - Motivation is to agree on informal but 'strict' terminology to
     help us write use cases that are easy to understand and reason
     about.

*** p2

   Proposal: Come up with naming or specification convention
             (informal) to make things clear

   (Essentially how to talk about context)

   Define loosely (in english) what terms mean, e.g., group membership.

*** p3

    For expository reasons

    Naming convention:

           user_name@administrative.domain

           Include "administrative.domain" because we often want to
           discuss scenarios crossing administrative domains; make it
           easier to discuss multi-domain scenarios

    Unique identifiers

    Associated with authentication identity, assertions

*** p4

    Identities used as "issuers" in policy statements

    A lot of discussion on "MUST be associated" 
         - how about ACLs; multiple people associated
         - only talking about the issuer of the policy

         The discussion on acls and delegation scenario boiled down to 
         administration of policy vs administration of 'object' to
         which policy applies.

*** p5 

    Difference between "resource policy" and "resource owner policy"

    A lot of discussion on 
         who is "root" authority for a resource

         Frank wanted to make the point that each resource has its own
         local policy

         Unique authorization authority? yes.

     - "owner" has initial authorization to set authorization policy 
       (bootstrap mechanism)

     - Possible to transfer ownership to someone else? 
       - (Frank) No!
       - But does it also depend on the resource?
       - (Frank) Ok, maybe in some cases.

     - Group of owners?
       - No. Always comes down to one.(?)

     - Andrew: Have to be careful with definitions so as not to make it
               difficult to express certain kinds of policies.

     - Action: Revisit the "owner" discussion.

*** p6
       
       A lot of discussion on whether "a statement MUST have an issuer"

         - Statement without issuer is meaningless
         - Sometimes it may be an implicit issuer?

         - who is responsible to ensure validity of statement?
           - all statements MUST be (cryptographically) validated

         - Need for "context for authorization policy" leads to MUST
       
         - It is possible to ignore issuer (your choice)

       Basically comes down to 

                 NOT "A statement MUST have an issuer"
                 BUT "A statement HAS an issuer"

       Attribute authority

       Any identity can be used to make assertions

       Statements on behalf of other issuers.  
                  Can trust someone to make assertion 
                  (assertions can be pushed with request (implementation))

                  Cannot make someone else issuer but can make an
                  assertion on behalf of someone if authorized (chain)

*** p8       

    Either trust someone directly or a chain of trust exists

    Motivation here is to be careful and show how fine grain model the
    use case expects/requires.

*** p9

    Summary of rules for naming

    Agreed that we don't want to constrain what can be expressed by
    our choice of vocabulary.

** "Usecases and requirements for OGSA-Security" (Takuya)

  URL: https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/ogsa-security-uc/en/1
  
  Takuya walked us through the presentation. There was not a lot of
  time so many details omitted.

*** p3 VO

   Who issues policies? 

       Who says who can create VO: 

           In this case: manager of (e.g.) Grid_1 or the VO factory

           A number of entities here that are not explicitly
           mentioned. Frank's naming convention may help clarify
           issues.

    (Consolidation or management or consistency of policies across
    grid_1, grid_2)

*** p6

   Job transferred between centers: who trusts what?

       trust is between data centers
       
       could Charlie say that he does not trust other data centers?
       
       conflicts could be resolved at contract negotiation?

                  do contracts relate policies? what is the role of
                  the contract (SLA)

                  resources that Alice can use from Bob
                  contract only between A & B 

                  SLAs do not (necessarily) relate or express policy

        Here Frank's naming conventions would help clarify things.

*** Conclusion

   "Dynamic establishment" is the case when there is no related data
   center and we'd have to go out and find one

   This use case is based on the commercial data center UC which assumes
   an existing relationship.

   (Missed a comment on agreeing on trust etc between VOs: WS-Agreement, WS-Trust?)

*** Security Services slide

   Summary of related work and which group is doing what.

* Wrap up

  Agreed that *eventually* Takuya should rewrite this use case using
  Frank's terminology to make things clearer. But it is a complex UC
  and we should start with something simpler first.

  Action: Frank and Takuya to come up with a simple use case
          (perhaps a component of the Commercial Center one) and
          express it using Frank's terminology.

  Action: Need more use cases (1 or 2) >Frank

  Action: Andrew to look into providing a data use case (access across
          organizational boundaries)

  Some discussion on 
        steady state of system vs bootstrap use cases 

               When trying to discover a new resource you already need
               to have some trust in place to be able to drive/guide
               the process

               bootstrap from low level of trust to some higher level.

               separate
                        - relationship between organizations in a VO
                                  (relation between resources)
                        - dynamic discovery of such entities (VO) that
                          are not trusted.
                                  
        
   Action: Andrew to give an introduction to the Legion model
                Focus on authorization aspect (not the authentication
                aspect) 
           - Hiro to schedule it keeping in mind that Andrew cannot
             commit to doing it before Jan 23.

   Last teleconf of year: 
        Hiro thanked everyone for their efforts over the past year.
