OGSA Teleconference - 17 March 2008 - Community Workshop
========================================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Steven Newhouse (Microsoft)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of new actions

  ACTION: Send workshop announcement to more groups.
    - Steven N to NESC and UK projects he has connections to (also
      look to send to other European contacts)
    - Ellen S will circulate inside IBM
    - Hiro K will send to EGR-RG
    - Hiro K will ask Andrew to contact various companies on the list

  ACTION: Andrew G/Mark M to provide information on
          transportation/accomodation
          - list of acceptable accomodation in Charlottesville and
          - Nearest or suggested airport (Dulles, Richmond?, ...)

  ACTION: Steven N will send out the slide deck after checking it again
          and also cross-checking with the SAGA and EGR templates.

  ACTION: Hiro K will ask Joel if it is possible to set up a separate
          page/wiki for the workshop

  ACTION: Steven N will put together the OGF23 workshop proposal


* Approved March 13 (use case) minutes with no changes
* Followup of actions from March 14 minutes

  - Announcement is out on the ogsa list. It is not possible to send
    it out on the ogf announce lists due to OGF policy.

  ACTION: Send workshop announcement to more groups.
    - Steven N to NESC and UK projects he has connections to (also
      look to send to other European contacts)
    - Ellen S will circulate inside IBM
    - Hiro K will send to EGR-RG
    - Hiro K will ask Andrew to contact various companies on the list

* Meeting update

  ACTION: Andrew G/Mark M to provide information on
          transportation/accomodation
          - list of acceptable accomodation in Charlottesville and
          - Nearest or suggested airport (Dulles, Richmond?, ...)

* Reviewed "OGF use case workshop" slides by Steven N

  - Reviewed and fleshed out definitions (e.g., suggested actors);
    added a number of slides to flesh out requested information. 
  - Participants will be asked to base their description on this slide
    deck
  
  ACTION: Steven N will send out the slide deck after checking it
          again and also cross-checking with the SAGA and EGR
          templates.


** Discussed output of this work

  a) A scenarios document along the structure of the EMS Scenarios that
    can identify the actors, data/info flow, involved services; or
  b) a gap analysis document identifying opportunities (with a summary
     of the input/scenarios as an appendix, based on the slides)

  Agreed that (b) is  a more useful goal than (a)

** Other 

  - Agreed to try and set up a wiki/page specifically for this effort
    rather than using the OGSA wiki; 

  ACTION: Hiro K will ask Joel if it is possible to set up a separate
          page/wiki for the workshop

* OGF23 workshop 

  - Start organizing the workshop to follow up: report back results
    and gather new use cases
  - Probably a community or best-practice workshop; half-a-day, or 3
    sessions

  ACTION: Steven N will put together the OGF23 workshop proposal

* Next call 
  - Thursday 3/20 is a holiday in Japan
  - Next possibility is Monday, 3/24
    - Apologies in advance: Ellen, Andreas
    - Hiro to ask Andrew's availability
