OGSA-WG Telephone conference
============================

18 January 2007

Participants
------------
Hiro Kishimoto, Fujitsu
Michel Drescher, Fujitsu
Andreas Savva, Fujitsu
Ellen Stokes, IBM
Steve McGough, Imperial College
Mark Morgan, UoV
Dave Berry, EPCC
Jem Treadwell, HP
Fabio Benedetti, IBM
Chris Kantarijev, Oracle
Donal Fellows, UoM
Andrew Grimshaw, UoV

Notes: Michel Drescher


1) Early discussion
===================
- Telecon minutes approal
  -- 15 Jan 07
     --- Hiro: Clarification about the distribution of a slide needs to be 
         sorted out. [Which slide?] Hiro will ask the relevant person for 
         details.
     --- Minutes approved without changes
     
- Action Item review
  (for details, see below)
  -- old action item being out of sync for Jay Unger has been reassigned with 
     new  ID to Jay:
     AI-0118a: Jay Unger to provide a definition of state (for the glossary)
  -- old action item being out of sync for Ellen, Jay and Tom has been 
     reassigned with new  ID to Ellen, Tom and Jay:
     AI-0118b: Ellen, Tom and Jay to look at WS-Policy nd assess any overlap 
               with the current XQuery efforts
  
- Proposal for new telecon structure
  -- Email sent to list
  -- Slots will definitely not move around within a call
  -- The slot specific action items may need to be reviewed (quickly!) 
     in the assigned slot itself
  -- The group reaches unanimous agreement to enact this proposal
  -- The group agrees to enact this new structure on the first call after
     OGF19

- OGSA Security Profile 1.0 - Secure Channel discussion
  -- Takuya requests another day to review the document
  -- Hiro will wait one more day for a reply from Takuya
  -- Any other comment must be sent to Hiro within 24 hours!
  -- Otherwise, the document will be submite to the OGF Editor before OGF19

- Agenda bashing
  -- OGSA security discussion topic
     --- Even though Alan Sill is not on the call, Andrew proposes to talk
         shortly on this topic anyway.
  -- OGSA workflow
     --- Andrew not ready for the discussion
     --- Topic has been postponed to next week's phone call
  -- Jem requests to add Glossay discussions to next Monday's phone call
     --- The group agrees to reserve 20 minutes of Glossary discussion
         to next Monday's call


2) OGF19 OGSA-WG session and March F2F
======================================
- The group discusses the five OGSA sessions at OGF19
- Session 1: OGSA Security
  -- Andrew is asked to start the Security discussion on the mailing list, 
     but the first OGSA session is reserved for OGSA-Security discussions
- Session 2: OGSA/EGA Reference model
  -- AI-0118c: Hiro to ask Paul and Chris to prepare the agenda
- Session 3: OGSA EMS
  -- No fixed detailed agenda yet
  -- Some data related issues will probably move to the OGSA-Data session
  -- The second OGSA-D session will cover the EMS scenarios (by Dave Berry)
  -- The group discussed the deployment service issues in EMS
  -- Andreas may update the agenda as appropriate
  -- The status of CDDLM is unclear, interim chairs have not been appointed
     yet(?)
- Session 4: OGSA Information and data modeling
  -- Ellen may update the agenda as appropriate including the list of invites
- Session 5: OGSA workflow
  -- First official workflow session on OGF
  -- Condor, IBM, Microsoft, Platform etc who are experienced in workflow
     should be invited
  -- Chris requests to make this session available by phone to have maximum
     outreach
     --- Fabio supports that request
  -- There is a Polycon requested for this session; 
     --- AI-0118d: Hiro to ensure that the polycon will in fact be provided
  -- AI-0118e: Andrew to draft invitation mail and publish to the list (and to
     specific people)
  -- AI-0118f: Michel to invite A-Ware and other EU projects for BPEL
               coverage at OGF19 OGSA session 5
- Related sessions are listed on the OGSA Wiki page for OGF

- March Face to face meeting
  -- Proposal to move the meeting to March 20 to 22
  -- AI-0118g: Hiro to launch a Zoomerang for the F2F available regarding
               date and location
  -- about 25 to 30 people are expected to attend


3) Information/data modeling
============================
- Tom is not on the call today
- Ellen, Tom and Andrew will meet some time next week to sort out the
  outstanding issues with OGSA-BES
- Hiro has some comments on the document "Information Model profile document: 
  BES Container"
  -- The title of the document should be changed to include something after 
     "... OGSA"
  -- Overview section: Hiro would like to know whether Ellen proposes one model
     or two instead
     --- Ellen indeed proposes two models, and the overview section needs 
         revision about that
  -- The keywords section is obsolete at the moment and can probably be 
     removed
  -- A contributors section (incl. editor info) should be added to the 
     document
     --- Originally was there, but pulled out because of a template sent to
         Ellen
- Ellen expects a next review on upcoming Monday's call
  -- Hiro: That depends on Monday's agenda and session oowner's availability
  -- Hiro proposes to schedule the review for next week THursday
  -- Ellen and Andrew agree on talking about this on OGSA-BES's session
     at OGF19


4) OGSA security discussion
===========================
- Andrew presents some background and historical information
- Andrew would like to set up a joint discussion with Alan Sill, and OGSA-HPC
- Hiro acknowledges that an Authentication Profile is necessary
- At the same time Hiro expresses his concerns about unnecessary effort ooverlap
- AI-0118h: Michel to prepare a joint discussion between OGSA Security and HPC
            group


6) Wrap up
==========
- No other business.


Action Items
============

AI-0118a: Jay Unger to provide a definition of state (for the glossary)
AI-0118b: Ellen, Tom and Jay to look at WS-Policy nd assess any overlap with
          the current XQuery efforts
AI-0118c: Hiro to ask Paul and Chris to prepare the agenda for the second OGSA
          session at OGF
AI-0118d: Hiro to ensure that the polycon will in fact be provided for the 
          OGSA Workflow session (session 5)
AI-0118e: Andrew to draft invitation mail and publish to the list (and to
          specific people) to draw attention to the OGSA Workflow session
AI-0118f: Michel to invite A-Ware and other EU projects for BPEL
          coverage at OGF19 OGSA session 5
AI-0118g: Hiro to launch a Zoomerang for the F2F available regarding
          date and location
AI-0118h: Michel to prepare a joint discussion between OGSA Security and HPC
          group for OGF19


> <*ACTION ITEMS*>> https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/wiki1569> > >> From Jan. 16 call> >   AI-0115a: Ellen will send out the link to a DMTF feedback>             template form.
==> open until next week

>   AI-0115b: Ellen will summarize the review of the DMTF documents and>             review the text at a future call.
==> open until next week

> >> From Dec. 11 call>   AI-1211a: Hiro to check with Takuya for any last minute changes and>             submit "BP - Secure Channel" for publication
==> reviewed later on today's call
>   AI-1211b: Hiro will arrange for the management software demo session>             not to conflict with any OGSA session at OGF19
==> closed
> >> From Nov. 30 call>     AI-11.30a: Michel to talk with Tom and Ellen on how to go about>                documenting his current proof of concept in the Info>                model Arch doc.
==> Michel to send proposed call times to Tom and Ellen for next week

> >> From Nov. 9 pm F2F.>     AI.11.09.pm-a: Ellen and Tom to write up a "Information Model>                    profile document: BES Container"
==> topic of today's call, so closed
>     AI.11.09.pm-c: Andrew to produce a document drafting the definition>                    of QoS
==> open
>     AI.11.09.pm-d: Andrew to contact the HPCP WG regarding future>                    involvement to create profile(s) on, e.g. BES, JSDL>                    etc.==> open

> >> From Sept. 15 OGSA F2F>   AI-0915d: Tom will post BP base faults issue to tracker
==> open
> >> From Aug. 17 call>   AI-0817a: Dave Berry and Jay Unger will approach groups (GIN,>              Globus, etc) that have implemented practical grids and>              start a discussion on how they handle data:>              - how data is treated as a resource that can be scheduled>              - how transfers are modeled>              - how files are advertised>              - how applications find files (query, by knowledge,?)>              (Due Oct. 9)
==> open
> >> From July 20 F2F> - EGR-WG (Ravi) will contact Geoffrey Fox and invites him to>      contribute use cases.
==> open
> - Andreas to go through the minutes and formulate a reply mail to>      Geoffrey on each artifact covered in these minutes.
==> no progress, open
> Postponed:> Until next reference model call (Dec. 11th):>   AI-1023c: Tom volunteered to review Hiro's HPC Cluster use case>             slides and make appropriate changes to indicate where the>             CIM Profile would fit in and how it would link into the>             Reference Model.
==> may be covered next Monday
>   AI-1023d: Paul will add more items to list on slide 6 of the HPC>             Cluster use case
==> may be covered next Monday

>   AI-1023g: Hiro will look at other parts of slide 5 and identify>             further possible refinements of this use case.
==> may be covered next Monday
