Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, May 24th 2006


0) Actions arising

* New actions

- Stephen to post his version of architecture document with the description of SRM functions to the list
- Stephen to chase Luc about the provenance scenario.
- Everyone to prepare for review of arch doc

* Ongoing actions

- Chris to draft GFS scenario
- Stephen & Dave to review scenarios doc from a storage perspective.
- Stephen & Dave to add interfaces to the scenarios doc [Done]
- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)
- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.
- Section authors review security aspects of their sections.

1) Early discussion

* Roll call

Allen Luniewski, IBM
Dave Berry, NeSC (note taker)
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Stephen Davey, NeSC

The minutes were approved.


2) Action report

- Dave to mail Joel to cancel GGF session [Done]
- Dave to mail Hiro about OGSA WG F2F [Done]
- Allen to clarify use of "data transfer" and "data access" in the architecture document [Done]
- Allen to integrate Neil's changes and put latest version of architecture document online [Done]
- Stephen to add a paragraph to the architecture document about reasons for naming, if still needed after Allen's revisions [Done]
- Chris to draft GFS scenario
- Dave to draft metadata catalog scenario & services (cf. SRB)
- Stephen & Dave to review scenarios doc from a storage perspective.
- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.
- Section authors review security aspects of their sections.


3) RNS/Naming update

A cut-down version of RNS was presented at GGF17 and discussed recently on the OGSA WG.  The OGSA WG are happy with the current approach.

The interface does not have an update operation: use remove and add.  The spec does not define how to set properties.  We recommended some editorial updates to better explain the motivation for the design.


4) Progress report and planning

We scheduled a review of the architecture document for next week, for new scenarios the following week, and for the scenarios document as a whole the week after that.

Stephen has prepared a version of the architecture document that includes a description of the SRM interfaces, so that the scenarios document can refer to them.  This needs some work to better integrate it into the Storage Management section.  Stephen to post his version of architecture document with the description of SRM functions to the list

We reiterated our desire to hold a F2F to thrash out the details of which interfaces to include in the arch document and how to include them.  Various dates were discussed, with early June a possibility.

[For future reference, we have previously discussed the following items, and need to check on progress:

- Storage in cache & federation services
- Operations to add data elements to replication systems
- Metadata operations]


5) Wrap up

Next meetings:

May 31 - Review arch doc.
June 7 - Review new scenarios.
June 14 - Review scenarios doc.
June 21 - ?


