Minutes of the OGSA Data WG telcon, November 2nd 2005.

1) Early discussion

* Roll call
Stephen Davey, NeSC
Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
Dave Berry, NeSC (note taker)
Ann Chervenak, ISI
Chris Jordan, SDSC
Allen Luniewski, IBM

The minutes and agenda were approved.

2) Action report 

- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication. [Ongoing]

- Mario to pass write token to Allen by end of week and make text available for comment.  [Mario has passed the write token for all but the Access section; Still to update the Access section].

- Dave to put reports from GGF on GridForge.  [Ongoing]

- Peter to rewrite storage management section to reflect changes from GSM-WG
[Dave to chase Peter re progress]

- Allen to write text about policy [Ongoing]

- Allen to write an overview section on security [Ongoing]
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections, once the overview is ready.
- Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document

- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.

- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation (after internal reviews).  

3) Progress update

Dave to ask Hiro about a room at the Sunnyvale F2F and plans for Athens F2F


4) Review of federation section and associated scenarios
 
Allen: We are describing a pattern rather than a service.

Federation vs Integration: is there a difference?  Distributed/local?  Let's just use Federation for the moment.

Are we only talking about federation of OGSA services, or of arbitrary resources?  The text is not 100% clear.

Add "potentially distributed" to the first bullet point.

Perhaps add simple examples to the bullets in the first section.

Does the data federation include a data discovery service?  Does the client talk to a data discovery service?  If we set aside research questions, there is a use for data discovery with a replicated resource as one component of the federation.  It may be reasonable for the client to find relevant data sources.

How is schema mapping to be done?  Almost certainly by humans.  The prose in the strawman document needs to explain this more.

How do we handle schema updates?  Can we have a notification/status system?

It may make sense to stratify the policies into those specific to federation services, those that apply to any data (access) services, and perhaps some (e.g. response time) that apply to any OGSA service.  We would then describe these are the appropriate level of the OGSA documents (taking the general ones to the OGSA WG).

The model for negotiating policy was not clear.  It should say that in practice the implementation may require a fairly sophisticated policy management engine.

Secion 10.5 should list the properties and refer to the OGSA base profiles for the access mechanisms.

The Scenarios document should list more examples of data integration projects.

Allen to update the federation section in the light of comments.


5) Wrap up

Next meetings:

Nov 9th:	Replication
Nov 16th:	Storage
Nov 23rd: 	Thanksgiving?
Nov 30th:	Scenarios document


* New actions

- Dave to ask Hiro about a room at the Sunnyvale F2F and plans for Athens F2F.

- Dave to chase Peter re progress.

- Allen to update the federation section in the light of comments.

* Ongoing actions

- Ann to check the Access section for suitability for file replication.

- Mario to update the Access section and make text available for comment.

- Dave to put reports from GGF on GridForge.

- Peter to rewrite storage management section to reflect changes from GSM-WG.

- Allen to write text about policy.

- Allen to write an overview section on security.
- Section authors to add security notes to their sections, once the overview is ready.

- Dave to revamp section 3 of the architecture document

- Everyone to talk with your contacts to get more participation in this WG.

- Allen/Dave to contact David Martin & Hiro Kishimoto to get reviewers & expert participation (after internal reviews).  
