OGSA Teleconference - 11 June 2007 - Logistics
==============================================

* Participants

  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  ZackK

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of New Actions

  AI-0611f: Dave S will use the HPC Profile wiki page as a starting
            point and produce a first draft for the interop wiki page,
            by the July 2 call
  AI-0611g: Jem will ask the people involved in the HP WSRF
            implementation about the possibility of taking part in the
            interop.
  AI-0611h: Once the wiki page is set up, Hiro will ask the IBM and HP
            OGF Board members for their teams to take part. 

* Minutes approved with no changes

      Mar. F2F data grid: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14322
      Mar. F2F JSDL 2.0: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14327
      Apr. 5 profile interop: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14390
      Apr. 23 logistics: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14411
      OGF20 profile interop: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14483
      F2F EMS scenarios & logistics: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14536
      May 21 logistics: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14553


* Review of Actions

  - AI-0915d: Obsolete; Closed.
  - AI-0314pm-a: Obsolete; Closed.
  - AI-0511c: In progress
  - AI-0511d: Hiro has issued the survey. He has received only 10
              responses.  Hiro will re-send the request and include
              who has replied so far

* OGSA Primer

  - Agreed that the proposed structure of this document is fine.
  - Andrew is working on a new draft. He is updating the
    infrastructure section. He will upload a new draft by the next
    call.
  - The next review is set for the next general call

* Profile Interoperability 

  The target is make sure that the relevant specs (WSRF BP and BSP/BP)
  are done right. Need at least 2 participants but it is better with
  more.
  - There is commitment from 2 independent Unicore implementations
  - Globus is planning to release a summer update that will make them
    capable of taking part in this interop
  - UVA would like to participate for some but not all specs. For
    example, UVA would not want to do the BP - Secure Channel. Also
    the WSRF BP has some components such as notification that UVA
    might not be able to participate in.

  The next step would be to develop the scenarios:
  - Probably there is no need to list the SOAP messages in detail
    upfront. From previous efforts doing so is useful to get things
    working and can be done on the fly and as needed.
  - There is a proposed scenarios list in the presentation at OGF20
    but this was not discussed due to lack of time

  The group discussed whether this interop could be done
  piecemeal. The main question is what is the additional burden of
  supporting the different options. The main issue was the security
  set up. Possibilities are
  1. Use the security profiles---requires UVA to support those
     profiles
  2. Anonymous ssl support---requires changes in some of the other
     implementations
  3. Everyone provides plain http (no security) as a baseline for
     testing the WSRF BP---possibly the simplest option

  It should also be made clearer what will be claimed collectively;
  i.e., the report of the interop. It was proposed that this report be
  done along the same lines as that of the HPC Profile, with perhaps
  an escape clause of 'not tested' for those parts that some
  implementations do not want to participate in.

  Agreed for the principals to arrange a separate discussion on the
  reasons some have for not supporting BP - Secure Channel

  Other candidates for taking part in the interoperability are IBM and
  HP. They have WSRF implementations but it is not clear if they have
  implemented the security profiles. Hiro volunteered to ask them to
  take part but it was agreed to first make clear what the interop
  would involve.

  Agreed to set up a wiki page with all information needed for the
  interop. 

  AI-0611f: Dave S will use the HPC Profile wiki page as a starting
            point and produce a first draft for the interop wiki page,
            by the July 2 call
  AI-0611g: Jem will ask the people involved in the HP WSRF
            implementation about the possibility of taking part in the
            interop.
  AI-0611h: Once the wiki page is set up, Hiro will ask the IBM and HP
            OGF Board members for their teams to take part. 

* New teleconference procedure

  Andreas explained the new approach of putting the entire
  teleconference schedule only in the calendar. No other document, or
  wiki page will be maintained for the schedule. This is to minimize
  the work of creating agenda, keeping things in sync, and to provide
  a single definitive place for the teleconference schedule including
  the agendas-in-progress.

  Public view is available via the gridforge OGSA-WG page in addition
  to icalendar subscriptions. Session leaders who have Google calendar
  accounts can get write access to the calendar by sending an email to
  Andreas with their Google calendar account name. Session leaders are
  urged to update their agendas directly in the calendar event
  description; or by sending email to Hiro. In either case the known
  agenda at any time is in the calendar event description.

  There was a problem with multiple reminder emails going to the list
  but that is now believed to be solved.

* Summer F2F

  Hiro has booked the Fujitsu Sunnyvale facility and is working on
  confirming the hotel rate.

  Andrew probably cannot make the proposed dates. He will ask Mark and
  Duane to attend in his place.

* Other discussion

  - Andrew and Mark will write up an agenda and lead the Thursday
    Service terms call.
  - Andreas will ask Steve McGough to provide an agenda for the
    Thurday Workflow session and to lead the session
