OGSA Teleconference June 2, 2004
================================

* Participants

  Sachiko Wada (Ascade)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Dave Berry (NeSC)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

  Note: This was a 3 hour call.

* Early discussion

** May 26 minutes approval 

   - Context section 
     - Minutes say to leave it in as a reminder even though there is
       no text.
     - Hiro thought that there was one more proposal to delete it and
       put in a tracker to revisit later.
     - Noone recalled it and Andreas thought the consensus was to
       leave it in.
     - Fred pointed out that since "Context Services" are on the
       Marketing picture it would be confusing not to have it in the
       document. 
     - Agreed to leave the section in, empty.
     - Agreed that minutes do not need change.

   - Minutes approved with no change.

** Early discussion

   - Approval of Secretary change
     - No objections raised on the list or in this call
     - Approved.

   - Jem proposed to add Andreas as Editor to the OGSA document given
     that he has been doing most of the work to put this version of
     the document together
     - Hiro seconded
     - No objections raised.
     - (Follow typical approval procedure, i.e, formally finalize when
       the minutes are approved.)

   - Contributors discussion
     - Andreas has received some input. Will draw up a list and post
       to the list before making the changes.

     Action: Send Andreas names of people you think should be added
             to the Contributors list asap.
  
** OGSA specification 

  - Andreas described the state of draft v17 
    - EMS text is old
    - Security section is not reviewed (will review this call)
    - Ravi's text is not included yet 
    - (Also not sure whether to add the marketing picture or not)
    - Requirements section needs another minor revision
    - So far have only been doing section reviews. The document also
      needs a good overall review.
   
  - Frank agreed to doing a revision of the Security section by early
    Thursday
  - Andreas will try to contact Andrew to see when a new EMS version
    can be expected.

  - Document review schedule
    - Agreement that it is not ready to send to the Editor before
      GGF11 
    - Fred suggested the approach to be taken by CMM-WG
      - Put up final document before GGF and give people a few weeks
        to comment
      - Revise based on comments (and more thorough review by the
        group)
      - Submit to the Editor

    - Jem volunteered to review the version to be submitted before
      GGF. 
      - Anybody else can also do so in parallel 
      - Send comments to Andreas who will merge and upload by Sunday

** Glossary

    - Planning to submit Glossary for GGF11 
    - Hiro to add it on the agenda for discussion
    - Agreed to leave color scheme to shows maturity of definitions
    - Frank is down for supplying some terms
      - Pointed to an existing security glossary in GGF

* GGF11 update

  - Will have a line/speaker phone in each session
  - Jem suggested adding SOAP (version, encoding) discussion to the
    agenda
   
  - Agreed to add Infrastructure services in one of the design team
    sessions. Two possibilities
    - Session #3 (security) has only one topic.
      - Frank needs the whole 90 minutes. He is arranging enough
        topics to use the entire session (discussion on X509, OTP
        etc). 
    - Session #4
      - Jem may not be able to make that session. To ask Steve
        Loughran if he can attend instead.

* Security section review

  - Frank to use Takuya's and Nataraj Nagaratnam comments (not
    reproduced here) for next version

  - Frank to add some statement that this section is not aimed to
    replace OGSA-Security work but to complement it.
    - There is already a statement to that effect in the document
      already. (Maybe restate.)

  - Fig.2. is an example; state it explicitly 'Example Input..."
  - WS-Trust is referred. What is its status?
    - Will reword as example

  - Frank to add one more picture 

  - Rewrite for clarity the following statement: "Note that in the
    picture ... stubs, and outside and transparent..."

  - Properties section
    - Some confusion over what should go here. 
    - Data section gives a good example of how to write it
    - Not requirements but how to address aspects of requirements that
      do not (cannot) appear under the functional capabilities.
    - Performance/Availability via replication was raised as one
      example
    - Frank to rethink and try to do a draft

  - Least Privilege Delegation
    - This might be a property
    - The example described here is top-down
    - Some discussion on whether the decision always comes down to the
      resource or whether some 'central' server is assumed
      - (The better intermediate layers understand the authorization
        document the better.)
      - Not clear if it is a requirement that every service has to be
        able to understand what is being delegated to them
    - (A side discussion also raised the issue of whether a job
      submission language should be extended with authorization or
      whether it should be defined in such a way to allow existing
      authorization languages to be plugged in)

    - Frank also will add a note for WSRF link: How to associate VO
      context with an interaction.
    
  - There is no Example Scenarios section. 
    - The contents of Interactions with OGSA (e.g., Least Privilege
      Delegation) seem more like example scenarios. Not sure if it is
      worth re-writing.
    - Takuya volunteered to write 1-2 paragraphs together with a
      figure to describe the Digital Library use case.
    
  - Fig. 6: Change the title to "Secure logging in a distributed
    environment"
  
  - Final section needs some rewording so as not to end on a "it's
    a hard problem" note

* Ravi's framework document

  - Aim is to provide an overall view and set the context

  - Review focused on Ravi's use of terminology

  - Fig 1.
    - Virtualization
      - Do we need to discuss it in OGSA?
      - Also this maybe the only place in the document that this term
        appears. If included then it must be explained later
    - Arrows from the bottom of the figure towards the top
      - Trying to depict that everything comes together to deliver QoS
        to the 'user' of the system
      - It's not clear that they convey this meaning is clearly;
        delete or redo.

   - Minor issue with coloring 
    - Lighter/or less use of color is better

    - "OGSA purview"
      - Why does it include Infrastructure?
      - Might be better to limit 'purview' to middle layer to make it
        easier on the reader (more consistent with the rest of the
        document)
      - Some discussion on meaning of 'purview' and whether it should
        be changed
      - Agreed to reduce brackets to just middle layer (exclude
        Infrastructure) And Change Purview to 'Focus'

    - Middle layer (left hand side) says 'Infrastructure services' 
      - In OGSA document Infrastructure services now refers to WSRF,
        WS-N etc. The things that OGSA assumes.
      - Ravi is calling these 'Grid fabric' instead
      - Fred emphasized the need for consisten usage of
        terminology. He has had to re-do terminology in the CMM
        document to make sure it is consistent with the OGSA
        document. 

    - Agreed to change the terminology including the figure to fit
      with current OGSA document terminology

    - Agreed to re-visit the terminology post-GGF11
      - Keep Ravi's first draft as input (e.g., upload to a tracker)

    - Fred's proposal: "Set of services that are not directly used by
      the user"

    - Fig 2: 
      - Change "Grid fabric" to "Infrastructure services"
      - What is "Plumbing?" 
        - What is needed (enabling functionality), not just hardware.
        - Need some more explanation to make this clearer.
          - 'flow of control and logic' or rather 'that enables the flow'
        - Side discussion on a virtualization of resource as a
          resource and that aspects of plumbing are virtualized as
          resources in order to use them.
      - Leading to a revisit the bottom of Fig. 1
        
      - Fig 1
        - Bottom part is virtualization of entities. The names used are
          the same as the entity that is virtualized.
        - So the 'plumbing' is actually at a lower level and is not
          visible in this figure.

    - Some concerns raised that a lot of concepts are not explictly
      described and sometimes are not consistent with the rest of the
      document (e.g., plumbing)
      - Problem of how to fit this with the rest of the document and
        make it consistent.

    - Fred's proposal: simplify terminology (e.g., plumbing,
      virtualization etc) espl terms not used in rest of the OGSA
      document

    - Agreed to revise this draft to make it less controversial:
      - Change plumbing to physical environment
      - Make connection/difference between Fig.1, 2 clearer

    - "OGSA is not a software architecture..."
      - This is somewhat misleading; rewrite
    - The next statements are stated very strongly in the
      negative. Consider re-phrasing.

    Action: Ravi to make another revision as soon as possible.

* Common Resource Model
  
  - Unfortunately Jay could not make the call.
  - Fred has already commented on the list.
 
  - Agreed that we need to deal with models. Not sure if there is
    agreement with the approach sometimes mentioned (i.e., single
    unified model)

  - CMM document sections: 4 & 6 are relevant to this
    discussion. Consider reviewing.

  - Allocate some time to discuss this topic in one of the design
    teams (e.g. cross session with WSDM, or Utility Computing) and
    reach agreement on way to move forward

  - Not so much a technical problem but a social problem

  - Unfortunately Jay will not be attending GGF11
    - Will arrange to have line for people to call in
    - Need to get some clarification from Jay in advance just in case

  - Proposal to also mention this problem and that it will be
    discussed in one of the earlier OGSA sessions
    - Fred volunteered to mention in one of the sessions (ARCH #1)

