OGSA Teleconference - 29 August 2005
====================================

* Participants

  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Aug. 10 Teleconference Minutes: approved with no changes

* OGSA Roadmap 

  - Should have an OGSA trademark usage discussion
  - Tom will have updated sections for Jem by next call

* August F2F evaluation

  - Consensus on the call that the meetings went well.
  - Probably set up the Dec/Jan one along the same lines
    - There is a GFSG meeting in January which some members will have
      to attend.
  
  Action: Hiro to do the usual survey for time/place.

** F2F minutes approval

   Andreas to do all necessary modifications.

*** Day 1
    
    - Attendee corrections:
      - Von's affiliation is NCSA  
      - Add Ravi to participants

    (As a followup to the discussion Hiro has asked Frank to give the
    group information on security guidelines. Takuya to follow up with
    Frank.)

    Minutes approved with minor changes.

*** Day 2 am: approved with no changes
*** Day 2 pm
    - Add Component model to CDDLM documents list
    - Application Description should be Application Archive
    - "AA are the contents ..." should be revised to "AA provides
      the...."
    - "An archive description ..." should be changed ... to "i.e.,
      dependencies. "

    - Minutes approved with minor modifications.

*** Day 3 am
    
    - Change SOAP text: SOAP 1.2 is not compliant with BP 1.1 while
      SOAP 1.1 is.

    - Text starting with "As we move to implementing ..." should be
      moved under a different topic. Check meeting agenda for topic
      name.

    - Minutes approved with minor modifications

*** Day 3 pm

    - Hiro to upload his presentation (re-charter)
    - Hiro to ask Steven N for his Glue presentation
    - Add Ravi to the attendees

    - Minutes approved with minor modifications

*** Day 4 am - Approved with no changes
*** Day 4 pm - Approved with no changes
*** Day 5 am - Approved with no changes

** Other issues

   - Discussed and agreed that agenda topics should also be
     tracked. There is an existing tracker and the Chairs and
     Secretary will share the work of updating it.
      - Hiro to check what topics should be tracked from the minutes

* Teleconference schedule review

  - 8/31 - Roadmap added
  - 9/5 - Labour day; no call
  - 9/7 - EMS discussion
    - Confirmed that Ravi can make it
    - Need to narrow down the agenda a bit more and decide if there is
      enough time to tackle all topics.
      - Hiro to follow up with chairs.
  - Architecture 1.5 moved to 9/14
  - Resource information model changed to information model

  Action: Hiro will upload a revised version.

* OGSA WSRF Basic Profile review

  - Major change is the removal/update of security section
  - Agreement at the F2F was to take the security sections/appendices
    out, require at least one security profile and then define more
    than one.
    - Changes to bring BP in line with the above. Remove list of
       security related profiles in Abstract
    - Removed section 8 (security)
    - Deleted normative and non-normative security related references
    - Changed appendices
      - Removed the EndpointKeyInfo element from schema. It now has to
        be defined in the appropriate security profile.
    - The referenced specifications table at the end needs update

** Security update

   - A conformant OGSA Basic Security 1.0 profile should expose a well
     known conformance claim, defined in wsdl
     - It is ok to have multiple claims
   - There MUST be a claim attachment. So it is a stronger statement
     than the WS-I profile claim attachement.
     - Have to state where it is attached (WS-I gives a choice of
       locations)
     - Agreed to attach to wsdl:portType (which is one of the WS-I
       choices)

   - Should the security profile be discussed in section 8 or in 1.2,
     or both?
     - Since the security profile(s) is not written yet it not clear
       how to discuss the relationship. In any case there is no
       restriction to stating profile relationships only in 1.2.
      - Agreed that some description should be added to section 1.2,
        with details in section 8

   - Is claim attachment sufficient explanation or should there be
     more discussion on the requirements that a security profile
     should fulfill?
     - Security profile as envisaged right now only really covers
       secure communication
     - Agreed that it is not possible to describe the requirements
       such a profile has to satisfy at this point; besides the
       generic claim that the profile is compliant to the OGSA basic
       security 1.0 claim.

   - Each conformant security profile should define two conformance
     URIs: The well known conformance claim defined in the Basic
     Profile and an additional more specific claim to that security
     profile.
   
   - Agreed to change all namespace uris; delete the dates.

   Action: Tom to post revised versoin after the call

   - Ideally the BP should be submited together with the security
     profiles.
     - Tom and Takuya to try and coordinate to get all documents out
       at the same time (if possible)

   Action: Hiro to arrange for additional time slots on calls as
           needed for reviewing the security profiles.

* Next call

  - It is not possible to discuss information modelling this week
    - Fred is planning to do an internal call next week tuesday.
    - Agreed to re-schedule for after Sep 19.

  - Roadmap and BP review for the next call.
  



