OGSA Teleconference November 17, 2004
=====================================

* Participants: 
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Jay Unger (IBM) (briefly)
  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)

* Minutes: Jem Treadwell

* Minutes Approval
  No minutes available for 11/3 or 11/10 meetings – no approval.
  
* OGSA F2F #9 (December 8-10)
  - Dave Snelling sent mail pointing out that the Holiday Inn telephone
    number provided earlier is incorrect.  Hiro has already sent mail
    to the list to correct this.

  - Can we get the IBM rate at the Holiday Inn?  Ask for it – you might
    get it!  

  - Jay checked, and they *apparently* have free high-speed access in
    all rooms.

  - Start time on Wednesday 12/8 is 9am.

* Interested-Party Survey
  Hiro is working on the template, and hopes to complete it by next 
  week’s meeting.  No discussion.

* Glossary
  Hiro made some proposals for service, entity, resource, manageable 
  entity and manageable resource, and Bill had also made some 
  proposals around the same group of words.  We discussed them at
  length.

  Ravi expressed some concerns that definitions would not be in tune 
  with, for example, the EMS work being done for V2, but Jem 
  eventually pointed out that the terms under discussion are for V1 
  of the Glossary, and could be revised for V2 if necessary.  The 
  changes to be made at this point should be minimal, to address 
  public comments.  

  Fred proposed that in the V1 document we recognize the issues in a 
  footnote, and state that we will consider design team work in 
  arriving at a consistent, crisp definition for V2.  Keep everything 
  conceptually unchanged in V1 – resources are manageable, everything 
  is an entity, resources are a subset of entities.

  This was agreed, and we agreed a set of modifications to the 
  proposals by Hiro and Bill.  Hiro will pass back to Jem for 
  incorporation, and Jem will attempt to have the document updated 
  by next week’s meeting (11/24).
