OGSA Teleconference - 19 November 2007  - Glossary
==================================================

* Participants

  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Kzack

* Summary of New Actions

   - ACTION: Hiro to post Marty's comments on behalf of him.

* Minutes Oct. 1st call approved with no changes

* Action Item review

  AI 6026 should be closed during this call

* Other early discussion

** F2F will be at IC in London from 9 to 11 January, 2008

** Roadmap document under public comment

   Roadmap document has no comment at this time
   please read and encourage your couleage to read and
   post your/their comments.
   - ACTION: Hiro to post Marty's comments on behalf of him.

* Glossary public comments review

** Dave Berry's comment on data terms
   Jem will incorporate all of them.

** Dave Berry's comment on resource and service
   Agreed to revise the last example sentence of definition of service.

** Allen's comment on entity
   This is not a glossary issue, but concept issue
   - ACTION: Andreas to put this into tracker for architecture doc

** Allen's comment on intermediary
   Discuss his comments but unable to resolve
   - ACTION: Jem to talk to Allen what he really wants.

** Definition of Basic Profile
   Hiro and Dave write draft text and Jem will incorporate
   in the next version.



