OGSA Teleconference - 16 November 2005
======================================

* Participants

  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Allen Luniewski (IBM)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (IBM)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Takuya Mori (NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Apologies: Steven Newhouse, Ellen Stokes, Michael Behrens

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* November 15 minutes approved with no changes

* January 2005 F2F Update

  Reminder: Scheduled for week of Jan 16 at Sunnyvale (Fujitsu)
  
  Agenda discussion:

  - ByteIO: A one hour slot should be sufficient to give an update on
    group activities.
    - The specification documents have already been submitted and it
      is expected that by January the main focus will be on
      interoperability testing.

  - Naming session
    - Not sure if it should include RNS. Andrew will check Manuel's
      plan and the status of the RNS specification.

  - Allocate a WS-Management BP slot?
    - There has been no update---delayed due to other developments.
    - An MS volunteer to lead this effort is the main requirement.
    - Tom will ask Dave Snelling and Tony Hey for an update.

  - Allocate OGSA & Glossary 1.5 slot?
    - It should not be necessary.

  Other actions:
  - Andreas to re-check network setup at Fujitsu

* GGF16 F2F Update

  - Planning a F2F on Friday after GGF16
  - No confirmation from Athens University for a room yet. 
  - Confirmed room at IBM. It is a 10 minutes ride from the hotel.

  - No discussion on how many sessions to have yet. Andrew suggested
    doing an "OGSA town hall" meeting to get more feedback from the
    community. [This would be in addition to or in place of Outreach.]

* Naming issue resolution process

** Review of status 

  - The BES-WG has not had a chance to discuss the naming issue on a
    teleconference yet. Given that this week is SC05 and next week is
    Thanksgiving it will take a few weeks.
  - The OGSA Naming WG will also have to discuss the related issue of
    the AbstractName definition.
  - The wider discussion within OGSA on Naming policy is more related
    to BES and not so much to the WS-Naming definition.

  Agreed that it will likely take about 3 weeks to reach a decision
  due to the various schedule issues, and given that some people
  prefer to discuss the issues on teleconfs rather than using e-mail.

** Next steps

  - Accepted Hiro's proposal to create a document (two in fact) on the
    requirements and issues and use it to drive the consensus process
    - Get a shared understanding of issues, requirements and people's
      positions.

  1. Andrew and Mark for the OGSA-Naming WG will summarize Naming
     requirements and issues
    - Including issues from the list discussion and also including a
      separate set of OGSA-DAI Naming requirements

  2. Tom will add issues from the list discussion to the policy
     document, including BES related issues.

* EMS discussion 

  - Postponed technical discussion; no quorum.
  - Hiro and Andreas are working on refining the scenario list in
    section 3. They will send a proposal to list.

* Information Model discussion

  - Postponed technical discussion; no quorum.
  - Andrew will talk with Ellen and Fred on how best to continue.

* Glossary review

  - Messaging service: keep as is
  - Metadata: check the OGSA document. If there has not been any
      change then leave as is. (Andreas and Jem)
  - portType: delete WSDL 2.0 definition. Check the OGSA document and
      delete any mention to WSDL 2.0, if it exists. (Andreas and Jem)
  - Provisioning: keep as is. Maybe not the only definition but it is
      the way it is used in the OGSA document.
  - Task: Review the OGSA document and delete if not used
  - UUID: leave as is
  - WSDL: Accepted Jem's proposal

  - Acronyms: Need to review separately. In principle add the ones
      defined in OGSA or grid specific ones. No need to add the
      general ones.

  - IRI: May be added if it ends up being used in the OGSA document. A
      reference to the appropriate RFC number should be sufficient.

* UML Tool choice

  - Rational is the choice from the last call.
  - Review and finalize decision next call.


* Next call

** Monday

  - UML tool
  - Basic Security Profile
  - AuthZ joint call
  - Profile Definition public comment revision
  - OGSA 1.5 Infrastructure section review (minus Naming)

** Wednesday (No call)
