OGSA F2F Meeting
Wednesday Morning, 14 March 2007

Attendees
---------------
	Mark Morgan (minutes)
	Jay Unger
	Steve McGough
	Hiro Kishimoto
	Fred Maciel
	Alan Linewski
	Ellen Stokes
	Andrew Grimshaw
	Chris Kantarjiev
	ZKert
	Chris Jordan
	Michel Drescher
	Andreas Savva

* Agenda Bashing

* Group Dinner
	- Group Dinner on Thursday
	- Brazilian Restaurant
		-- Cleo's 451 El Camino Real, San Bruno 650-615-9120
	- Action Item: Get head count tomorrow

* Roadmap Discussion
	- Chris stepping through document comments and issues.
	- Need a picture to really describe the "archtecture" part of OGSA.
	- Should we write articles for places like ACM Transactions, or IEEE to =
give motivations for the dry specs we currently have.
		-- Target the technically literate end user.
		-- General consensus is that this is a good idea
			--- Action Item:  Andrew to write a first draft with Chris =
Kantarjiev.
		-- Outside of roadmap.
	- Action Item:  Andrew to take 1 or 2 pager that he and Hiro wrote a =
year ago and send it out to the group.
	- OGSA-DMI Functional Specification status clarified
		-- Hiros comment is outdated by the document moving to the Normative =
part of hte OGSA Roadmap document
	- Chris to change ByteIO public comment period to August 2006.
	- Action Item: Chris to complete these changes and some of these =
updates on the HPC Profile and Usecase Documents.  Will send update =
version for review and further comment.
=09
Attendee Changes
---------------------------
	Add Bahareh Rahmanzadeh
	Remove Chris Jordan

* Workflow
	- In BPEL, how are events named?
	- Can't change the workflow once its started
	- OGSA should say, what are the architectural requirements that we =
should have in the grid.
	- The lack of dynamiscism and the lack of workflows as first class =
entities seems like a serious drawback.
	- Can we agree to not write our own workflow language until we look at =
what's out there.
	- We have to figure out exactly how we fit under nominal work flow =
structures.
	- We need to collect the use cases for work flow (Platform, OMII, =
Altair)
	- Action Item:  We should talk to Chris Smith about this (Hiro?)
	- Action Item:  Andrew to contact Bill Nitzberg about Workflow
	- Action Item:  Steve McGough to talk to OMII about Workflow
	- Action Item:  Chris K. to be the "whip" for workflow use case study.
	- Most common use case is (I have a big dataset and algorithm that can =
work on a subset of the data set).
	- Action Item:  Chris K. to provide template for use case within a =
couple of days.
