TSC 11-01-06

Attendees:
Tom Maguire
Dave Snelling
Chris Kanterjiev
Robert Fogel
Steven Newhouse
Joel Replogle


Agenda:
1) Formalities: Note taker, Attendance, Agenda bashing, Call for AOB

2) Confirm next meeting: Telecon 17:00 GMT, November 15th
     Confirmed the time
3) Action Review: Joel
	- Dave: In form BoD of a process request from TSC: Pending
		"Representation across different areas should be considered by
                   NONCOM when accepting the TSC at large members"
	- All except Tom M: Review OGSA Use Cases against our three
                 categories (Cluster, Data Centre, Collaboration  
Grids): Pending
                 Use cases attached.
4) Document Development:
	- Need an expanded process section, Tom Maguire,
		https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/artf5565?nav=1
	- Integrate input from ADs
	- Others time permitting.
5) Discussion Topics (Time permitting):
	- artf5574 : Open Standards vs Commercially Backed De-facto
                Specifications
6) AOB
7) Action review

--

Action: Tom - work on the process section by Friday, discuss more details with Dave

Document development - used input from ADs to update the table in the document.  Added "Full Rec" as one of the Status/Milestone codes.

Robert comment - The diagram on page 4 is too high level, he has another version to discuss that he sent around.

Tom will make updates, then we can make comments in the context of the document.
