TSC 08-31-06

Dave Snelling
Tom Maguire
Mark Linesch
Chris Kan
Geoffrey Fox
Steven Newhouse
Robert Fogel
Andre Merzky
Joel Replogle


Next meeting: Sep 7 at 1400 UTC (but this overlaps with the ESC), so we need to figure out a better time.

1) Preliminaries:
	Minute taker assignment - Joel
	Attendance
	Call for AOB
	Date of Next meeting
	Agenda Bashing

2) Document Next Steps and Issues

	a - Data Provisioning
	b - Service Level Agreements
	c - Process section
	d - Agreement on Models
	e - Mark's inline Comments

For a, b, and c I think a short discussion followed by assignment of  
a person to work on text will do.

For d, we seem to agree pretty well on what Mark called " Grid  
Segmentation Model". I think the next step would be to identify which  
other models we need, and again assign interested parties.

For e, I suggest I take the pen to incorporate/respond to those.

Process:
	- Deadline for  input from assignees EOB-US Friday.
	- I'll do my changes and incorporate what I have by EOB Tuesday.
	- Call for strong objections to the draft to close by EOB-US Thursday.
	- Final version (by me) by EOB-Japan Friday.

3) The BoD had some questions about TSC membership.

4) We need some slide we can all use based on this stuff.

5) AOB

Discussion:
2. Document Next Steps & Issues
	a. Chris action - provide more detailed writeup on provisioning (expanding on his email)
	b. Concerned about TSC backing WS-agreement until it has more traction.  Dave's proposal to put it on the work-list for future version of the document.  Joel action - Create a tracker "work list" ->Consider how to fit Service Level Agreements into the Technical Strategy document.
	c. Tom action  -take a stab at a process section
	d. question about linking the low-level use-cases & high-level "archetypal" use-cases.  The EGA Reference Model came up with 200 use-cases, perhaps we can find the 5 or so common use-cases to identify them as archetypes.
	Dave action - add a "non-exclusive" portion to the section.
	Joel Action - add Work list tracker - defining/identifying service categories

Deadlines for new sections EOB Friday (tomorrow, 1 Sep).
Changes incorporated by EOB Tues 5 Sep then last call issued for strong objections by Thurs 7 Sep.
The Dave issues final version by EOB-Japan Friday, 8 Sep.

3.
Mark clarified BoD request for two additional at-large members.  Specifically Applications & End-User
Joel action - add to a future discussion reviewing the TSC membership/representation.

4.
Question - is this really a strategy document? 
Geoffrey - we need to be very careful to not do yet another taxonomy.
Joel - action - add Work list tracker - work more on the strategy parts

5. 
Who from the TSC is available for the second roll-up session?
Dave, Robert, Chris, 

Robert action - flesh out what Dave's part (20-minutes) is for the first Roll-up section, and expectations on the second session

