OGSA DMI Telcon - 24 February 2010
==================================

Present:
        Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
        Steven Crouch, University of Southampton
        Peter Turner, University of Sydney
        Garson Galang, VeRSI
        David Meredith, STFC       
        Shahbaz Memon, FZJ

Agenda:

o Agenda bashing
o Actions review
o Progress report
o Proposed changes to the group
o OGF28
o Planning

Actions:

[MAA]  Look at Shahbaz's WSRF DMI rendering.

[SM]   Find out if adding xsd:any to all complex elements would
       have a negative impact.

[DM]   Add suggested changes to the text in the functional spec.

[SC]   Make introductions to get some DMI/JSDL interaction going.
       Contact Donald Fellows and Andreas Savva.

       Will pursue at OGF28. UNICORE also using JSDL.

[DM]   Come up with a straw man proposal for the bulk transfer
       operation.

       Taken over by DM from SM. SM will help to contribute.

[DM] Mail the out the most salient points to the WG for discussion.

[MAA/SM/DM/SC] Prepare slides for the OGF28 session.

Completed Actions
----------------

[MAA]  Give everybody on this call author privileges once on
        Grid Forge and joined the OGSA-DMI WG.

        I believe that I did this for all the people I could
        find that were subscribed on GridForge.
        Check if Steve is there.

[DM]   Reply to Allen's email.

       Retired.

---

o Agenda bashing
o Actions review
o Progress report

WSRF/WSI rendering for WS-I document still not been
released to be published. 

Need to decide whether to publish the WS-I document after 
the bulk transfer document in case it has an impact.

Have to consider the xsd:any extensions to the existing
DMI specs and the bulk transfer straw man.

DataMinx has been getting their implementation 
together and can feedback to the group. Aiming
towards a first release at the end of February.
Includes the back end JMS.

MAA encouraged a completely pragmatic approach
towards development of DataMinx and not to get
tied up with spec stuff.

MAA also think it is important to try to and keep
UNICORE and Globus engaged to get them to 
work. A discussion followed of whether middlewares
like GridSAM and OGSA-DAI could implement DMI.
GridSAM could provide some functionality, OGSA-DAI
could either act as a client to a DMI service or act
as a source/sink of data.

o OGF28

Have a 90 minute session.
MAA, SC, DM & possibly SM.

MAA report on the status of the group.
SC/DM Future directions.

Outline of the bulk transfer by then would be good.

Discuss the messaging model - present the first version of the spec.
Contact Donald Fellows, Andreas Savva - to be contacted by SC.
MAA will try to talk to Ravi.

Try to produce slides a week before OGF for feedback.

Need to report to the data area meeting.

o Proposed changes to the group

MAA announced that he would be stepping down as chair from 
DMI. A possible replacement was SC. The group agreed that
this would be a good choice. MAA would email the WG telling
folks that he was resigning and that SC would be a good
replacement. As the folks in the telcon had endorsed SC
as a good choice really looking for objections or alternatives.

o Planning

Most of the planning runs up to OGF28 where more planning will
be made.

o AOB

Skype call worked out well and will be used in the future.