DMI Telcon - 01 October 2009
============================

Present
-------

  	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
  	Peter Turner, University of Sydney
	Steve Crouch, Southampton
	Shahbaz Memon, FZJ
  	David Meredith, STFC
        Gerson Galang, VeRSI

Actions:
--------

[MAA]  Give everybody on this call author privileges once on
       Grid Forge and joined the OGSA-DMI WG.

[MAA]  Look at Shahbaz's WSRF DMI rendering.

[SM]   Find out if adding xsd:any to all complex elements would
       have a negative impact.

[DM] Add suggested changes to the text in the functional spec.


Completed Actions:
------------------

[MAA] To come up with a template document to explore if required
      functionality can be put in a spec addendum/new spec.

      Have started a rough  document.

      http://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc15764?nav=1

[MAA] Ask Allen to comment on the proposal on the wiki.

      Did, Allen sent out comments.

[DM] Enumerate the extensibility points required in the DMI spec.

      <dmi:Data/> element, add <xsd:any/> to all dmi complex types?
 
[MAA] Try and get Steve Crouch involved.

      Steve said that he would be able to attend.

---

MAA put a very rough document to explore the extensions being proposed by
the DataMinx folks on the OGSA-DMI WG pages.

Discussed the proposed extensions to the existing element, mainly
adding an xsd:any to the <dmi:Data/> element. Possibly do this for all
complex elements. Has an impact on interoperability but can make these
optional extensions and later standardise through profiles.

Discussed the fact that that DataMinx do not use an explicit factory -
instance pattern. They use JMS to post and distribute messages.
Simplest scenario from/to JMS queues syphoned off to back end nodes
that actually do the transport - they want to make sure the
implementation is agnostic of the underlying data movement
protocol. However this does not preclude the fact that they use a
factory like interface.

Currently have a slight schism in the group over the encapsulation of
multiple data transfers by a DTI. Allen's points were discussed on 
the call and Dave is going to post a reply in the near future. 

The group is going to use a mixture of the GridForge document
mario posted and the GridForge wiki to continue exploring these
possible extensions.

Dave keen to have the data transfers represented by documents.
Mario said that that could turn into a data movement workflow
and it could fall outside the remit of OGSA-DMI. The group
will try to explore this further.

Date of next call: October 16th 9am UK time.