OGSA Roadmap call minutes

June 28th, 2006

Attendees:
Jem Treadwell, Dona Dickinson, Hiro Kishimoto, Chris Jordan

Regrets: Mike Behrens

Action report:
Chris contacted Joel Replogle about coordinating on overall GGF document-tracking system. 
Will have a phone conversation with Joel, ideally next week 

Hiro sent out initial contact list, containing documents and names - need contact info to match w/ names

Mike Behrens to write up intro to underlying WS standards

Agenda Items:

Discussion of introductory section rewrites:

Agreement on rewriting Introduction, section 1
	- The existing first section is specific to the situation at the time of the first OGSA Arch release
	- Needs to be updated to reflect the wider community and evolution of the landscape
Chris will take first pass, work on drafts with Hiro and Jem

Discussion of section 2, requirements etc - 
There is an open tracker item on the requirements in particular
Chris will look at tracker on Section 2, provide suggestions, solicit input from wider group
(Contact submitter of initial tracker item?)

Need to track status of document contacts and information -
Jem suggested using the Wiki on GridForge
Dona will take a first shot at creating a document contact list.
Chris will pass on contact info

Plan for discussion of Roadmap July 10 
Plan for Roadmap Document call July 12