Minutes of the Twelth OGSI-WG Teleconference
04/Dec/2002 @ 21:30-23:00 GMT

Attendees:

Karl Czajkowski <USC/ISI>
Frank Siebenlist <ANL>
Shel Finkelstein <Sun>
Jeff Frey <IBM>
Steve Graham <IBM>
Bill Horn <IBM>
John Rofrana <IBM>
Andreas Savva <Fujitsu>
Dave Snelling <Fujitsu>
Pete Vanderbilt <NASA>

1. Approval of Minutes - OK.

2. Review actions

Action: Jeff Frey to draw up a description of how to integrate the 'implicit' verses 'SDE' state dichotomy. Also look into other issues of coherency control. - Pending

Action: Steve T&G to push on W3C to get what we need (portType extension without breaking encapsulation). Take ownership. - Pending

Action: Tom Maguire and John R, not being happy with the mutability language, will propose new language reflecting the current meaning. - Pending.

Action: Steve G & John R to update Service Data document and integrate the Set service Data Document - Done

Action: Dave S Faults summary. - Pending

Action: Steve Graham and Pete to drive the creation of an XML Schema for the specification (#35) - Pending decision of service data and some pointers on WSDL 1.2 syntax.

Action: Dave Snelling and Andrew Grimshaw to look at requirements and solutions for pull like semantics - Pending

Action: Steve G. and Jeff F. to send new position on topic based notification - Done

Action: Shel will follow-up Events use cases for events and notification - Done.

Resolution: All event like proposals (e.g. from a request for a simple deliver w/ ack based on Service Data through to the full support of topics) were punted. They should be looked at in the OGSA-WG and sent back to us for V1.1 or to other WGs. We will monitor WS activity in the meantime.

The reasons for this decision included the limited time to discuss and reslove what could be a very big time consumer; the number of proposals already on the table plus those from places like DAIS; and that it was dependent on a better collective understanding of service Data (which means we can't even start discussing it yet).

Action: Dave S to put a proposition for registration portType, together
with exact text. - Pending

Action: Andrew G to write a document describing the options for reslover behavior. - Pending

Action: Steve Graham to craft language for recommendations to developers for use of resolvers (#17) - Pending

Action: Steve T. Email list of proposed resolve->verified bugs. - Pending

Action: Pete V. and Steve T. to propose a more general solution to the extensibility argument pattern, see bug 34. - Pending.

Action: Pete V. to create XML schema for locator elements, see bug 37. - Done.

3. Resolve the Lifetime of GSH question.

Background: GSHs are never recycled. GSRs have variable lifetimes, possibly quite short. Both may contain internal life-cycle attributes, as the details of each are outside the spec. The gsdl:serviceLocator contains zero or more gsdl:serviceHandle elements and zero or more gsdl:serviceReference elements. The questions to answer are where do we put life time attributes and are the required?

  1- On the gsdl:serviceReference elements
  2- On the gsdl:serviceHandle elements
  3- On the gsdl:serviceLocator container itself

Process: Agree that these are the questions that need to be answered and then answer them.

The process was agreed after clarification that handles and references are put together in the locator (i.e. there is not separate structures in the locator for each).

It was noted that 1 and 3 mean different things: (1) refers to the lifetime of the individual references and (3) referred to the binding between GSHs and GSRs in the locator. However, life time attributes on 3 was also though to be confusing, as some interpreted is as service of GSH lifetime.

Resolution:

There will be no life time attributes on the handle or the locator as a whole.

The goodFrom and goodUntil will be listed as optional attributes on the reference. See bug 37 for example format. Text should be crafted along the following lines:

"Clients SHOULD NOT expect to connect to a service, via the given GSR, before goodFrom or after goodUntil."

4. Review and agree actions on the proposed WS-ServiceData paper posted yesterday. See
      [ogsi-wg] changes to WS-ServiceData Wed Dec 4, 2002  01:19:24 GMT

Process: Go through the document by section.

Time was thought to be too short and the key section of service Data semantics was not yet included in the document. This section is in a draft from Jeff F, under review by Steve G. and should see the light very soon.

5. Buggzilla Sweep from Bug 39 time permitting.

No action.

6. Matters Arising

We discussed the question of mutability and modifiability, without making firm resolutions. The proposal in the Service Data paper however, met with a good reception, however the language may change before the next release. For reference, current proposal is likely to be:

   modifiable : 
      boolean -  Can the client modify the SDE subject to mutability constraints?

   mutability : 
      constant - WSDL only; can't be changed; Union of all contributions from portTypes.
      setOnce  - Can only be set once. in the WSDL, by the service, or by the client subject to modifiable.
      extend   - May only be extended, No delete allowed.
      mutable  - Freely changeable.

See the proposal for detailed language. Note that some of these names have changed and that we are not yet happy with setOnce.

7. Next Meeting:

December 11, Wednesday pm (US & Europe) or Thursday am (Asia-Pacific) at:

    13.30-15.00 US Pacific (e.g. Los Angeles)
    14.30-16.00 US Mountain (e.g. Denver)
    15.30-17.00 US Central (e.g. Chicago)
    16.30-18.00 US Eastern (e.g. New York)
    21.30-23.00 GMT
    21.30-23.00 UK (e.g. London)
    22.30-00.00 Central Europe (e.g. Paris)
    06.30-08.00 Japan (next day)

Teleconferences are scheduled for:
    December 18
    January 8, 15

The teleconference information for all remaining scheduled teleconferences is:
    1-484-630-8733
    Passcode: 72316
