Minutes of the Eight OGSI-WG Teleconference
02/10/2002 @ 15:00-16:30 GMT

Attendees:

Tim Banks <IBM>
Karl Czajkowski <ISI>
Shel Finkelstein <Sun>
Steve Graham <IBM>
Andrew Grimshaw <Avaki>
Bill Horn <IBM>
Fred Maciel <Hitachi>
Andreas Savva <Fujitsu>
Frank Siebenlist <ANL>
David Snelling <Fujitsu>
Steve Teucke <ANL>
Peter Vanderbilt <NASA>

1) Approval of minutes form Setpember 25th. OK

2) Review of pending actions:

Time:
  Wednesday, October 2nd
     08:00-09:30 US Pacific (GMT - 7)
     09:00-10:30 US Mountain (GMT - 6)
     10:00-11:30 US Central (GMT - 5)
     11:00-12:30 US Eastern (GMT - 4)
     15:00-16:30 GMT
     16:00-17:30 UK (GMT + 1)
     17:00-18:30 Central Europe (GMT + 2)
     00:00-01:30 Japan

Place:
  Phone: Correct through GGF6.
	Phone number: 1-484-630-5376
	Pass code: 93031
  IRC:
     DALnet
     #ogsi

1) Approval of minutes form Setpember 25th.

2) Review of pending actions:

Action: Steve Graham to drive the creation of an XML Schema for the
specification, #35 - Pending, but may be dealt with in a breakout at
GGF6.

Action: Steve Graham to craft language for recommendations to
developers for use of resolvers. Pending, but may be a session at
GGF6.

Action: Dave Snelling and Andrew Grimshaw to look at requirements and
solutions for pull like semantics - Pending with ideas forming.

Action: Dave will look into a DeliverWithAck option. One issue is
specifying which delivery operation should be used - Pending, but ties
into the events and notifications discussions.

[Minute takers note: My apologies for driving the following section a
 bit heavy handed, but there seems to be too much time spent in
 teleconferences without a clear indication of the topic or it's
 motivation.]

Several actions around QoS issues:

Note from the interim meeting minutes 4-6 September 2002:

     "Resolved: This WG does not need to address QoS
         issues of a GridService at this time."

Therefore, our procedures indicate  that anyone wishing to reopen this
issue  needs to  produce a  compelling  case to  the list.  Therefore,
pending approval at the next meeting, the new actions are:

Action: Proponents of the inclusion of QoS specifications in Grid
Service portTypes to produce documentation to the list justifying a
reconsideration of this issue.

The following action is therefore considered dropped. Once the above
is completed, new actions along these lines may be required.

Action: Proponents of specifying QoS at the binding only are asked to
answer the following: How does reliable mesaging work in the absence
of portType specification of QoS? How does the client/service
request/provide it? - Dropped.

Action: Steve Tueke will propose a binding layer project to OGSA WG,
but he is not committed to dirve it.

3) Review of plans for GGF

The following topics were identified, but we did not assign priorities:

   - Notification possibly divided into "Event-style mechanisms".
   - Extension relationship in the GS portTypes.
   - Collection interface hierarchy and operations.
   - Bugizlla issue review.
   - Interim strategy discussion (what to do while we wait for WSDL 1.2)
   - Resolver behavior and the semantics of multiple naming schemes.
   - Read-Write SDE's
   - Coherency semantics of multiple findServiceData operations. 
   - Others from bug list.

Just for your information, I will leave this here:

Tuesday, October 15
  07.00 - 08.00  GFSG meeting
  08.30 - 09.30  Opening Plenary
  10.00 - 11.30  OGSI WG Update
  12.00 - 13.30  OGSA-SEC WG
                   &  DAIS WG session 1
  14.00 - 15.30  OGSI WG Technical Discussion
  16.00 - 17.30  OGSA WG
  19.30 - 21.30  Social event

Wednesday, October 16
  07.00 - 08.00  GFSG meeting
  08.00 - 09.30  DAIS WG session 2
  10.00 - 11.30  OGSA WG
  12.00 - 13.30  OGSI WG Technical Discussion
  14.00 - 15.30  OGSI WG Technical Discussion
  16.00 - 17.30  Unscheduled (Globus people have R&D 100 award ceremony)

Thursday, October 17
  07.00 - 08.00  GFSG meeting
  08.00 - 09.30  OGSI WG Technical Discussion
  10.00 - 11.30  Area meetings
  12.00 - 13.30  Closing Plenary

4) Technical Agenda, Service Data Issues: 

   Bug 21 - Interpretation of SDD mutability attribute on service description

Resolved to follow the recommendation proposed in the bug. Mutable to
be interpreted as "soft-append" for values present in the WSDL. Also,
"append" to be changed to "extend" in the spec.

SDE values are also to be defined as a "bag" in the syntax and if more
semantics are needed (e.g. sets) they will appear in the documentation
of the service.

   Bug 22 - What if SDE lifetime attributes are not specified?

Resolved to mean "not known" - needs to be processed in bugzilla and
the spec.

   Bug 23 - Expressing "forever" in SDE lifetime attributes

Open, but pending the resolution of bug 19. This should also be
switched to a factory bug.

------------

The following were discussed in open forum, without the intension of
seeking resolution. Please comment to the list, so that we can proceed
more quickly:

   Bug 48 - SDEs that should not be initialized in the WSDL

The general feeling was that enough cases existed to justify some
indication that a SDE should not be set in the WSDL. Whether this is
in the syntax or the service data description needs resolution.

   Bug 51 - Read-Write SDEs

There was broad support for this notion, but concrete proposals are
needed.

   Bug 53 - queryByServiceDataName to allow multiple name parameters

Again strong support for this issue. But the coherency of the values
returned needs to be discussed, as does this issue effect the
notification portTypes.

---------------

These were not discussed.

   Bug 32 - xsd:float use is misleading
   Bug 34 - Model FindServiceData() & CreateService() specializations
            as methods
   Bug 40 - Does minOccurs=1 make sense in light of authorization?
   Bug 45 - serviceData type attribute is redundant
   Bug 46 - Proper interpretation of Mutability
   Bug 47 - Clarify terminology of serviceData
   Bug 54 - We need some way of specifying 'nothing' as an SDE in itself.

5) Open Issues being carried:

      - Track the IPR status of WSIL.
      - Should WS-Inspection document (or other formats) be explicitly
        noted in the spec?
      - Oinn's report on presence or absence of SDEs still be be discussed.
      - What assumptions can be made about the properties of a service
        resolved by a resolver?
        #43 The specialization of the DeliverNotification operation
        #44 Language linking notification subscriptions to SDEs.
      - Explore further the implications of subscriptions as Grid Services.
      - What does a successful return from a RegisterService call mean?
        #42 The distinction between 'void return' and 'no return' in
            some operations

6) Next meeting

Time:
  Wednesday, October 9th
     08:00-09:30 US Pacific (GMT - 7)
     09:00-10:30 US Mountain (GMT - 6)
     10:00-11:30 US Central (GMT - 5)
     11:00-12:30 US Eastern (GMT - 4)
     15:00-16:30 GMT
     16:00-17:30 UK (GMT + 1)
     17:00-18:30 Central Europe (GMT + 2)
     00:00-01:30 Japan

Place:
  Phone: Correct through GGF6.
	Phone number: 1-484-630-5376
	Pass code: 93031
  IRC:
     DALnet
     #ogsi

Agenda:

Try to get a better picture of what we will do at GGF and continue
with service Data discussion.

