Minutes of the OGSI-WG Teleconference
06/Nov/2002 @ 22:00-13:30 GMT

Attendees:

Shel Finkelstein <Sun>
Steve Graham <IBM>
Bill Horn <IBM>
Fred Maciel <Hitachi>
Jim Magowan <IBM>
John Rofrano <IBM>
Karl Czajkowski <USC>
Andreas Savva <Fujitsu>
David Snelling <Fujitsu>
Ellen Stokes <IBM>
Steve Teucke <ANL>


1) Approval of minutes from October 30, 2002 - OK.

2) Notification of AOB and agenda approval. Decided to skip notification and go through proposal on SetSDE paper from John Rofrano and Ellen Stokes.

3) Interim meeting plans - No additional planning required at this meeting.

4) Actions Review was skipped. Here are the unchanged current actions.

Action: Steve Graham and Pete to drive the creation of an XML Schema for the specification, #35 - Pending, but may be dealt with in a breakout at GGF6.

Action: Steve Graham to craft language for recommendations to developers for use of resolvers. Pending, but may be a session at GGF6.

Action: Dave Snelling and Andrew Grimshaw to look at requirements and solutions for pull like semantics -  Pending with ideas forming.

Action: Dave, Steve G, and others Write something for Events portType that might work with JMS and related issues (use cases) - Pending

Action: All to post use cases for Notification/Events to the list.

Action: Keith to post pointers to the Python implementation. - Pending

Action: Dave S to put a proposition for registration portType, together
with exact text - Pending

Action John Rofrano and Ellen Stokes will propose a setServiceDataByName(s) text.
Also by DB style Update if possible. Done, but reissued request for a new draft
following discussions on Nov 6th. - Pending

Action: Andrew G to write a document describing the options for reslover behavior. - Pending

Action: Steve T. publish spec and Resloved/Fixed bug numbers - Pending.


5) Technical Issue, Set ServiceData proposal:

A pdf document was posted to the list. We went through this with the following basic feelings exhibited. A second draft is actioned to John and Ellen.

   - A new attribute, modifiable (type boolean) indicates what the client can
     do through the portType operations. This does not effect what the server 
     can do the the SDE. - Basic agreement, but see actions.

   - The default, if not defined, is false. - Universal agreement.

   - A more complete table of the interaction between mutability and modifiability 
     was requested, see actions.

   - The spec includes two SDEs that could be given a maodifable=true
     attribute, the SDE are GSH and TerminationTime - This received some acceptance.

   - Update by name expression type generally accepted as a required expression type.

   - The proposed caveat on authorization was thought acceptable.

   - The value in the update expression needs to be an element rather than an attribute.

   - The semantics of update verses replace need to be addressed with reference to mutability.

   - It is also not clear whether the spec should include automaticity. Although there was
     support for more semantics in the basic plural update than just shorthand for multiple
     singular set/update operations.

   - The faults framework seemed to need simplification. It was also felt that faults should
     somehow mirror what was specifiable, e.g if we are going to have a fault 
     'not-setable-just-now' then we should also extend modifiable to capture 
     'intermitently-modifiable'. The proposers will revisit this in the next round.
 

6) matters arising:

Resolved: Put back findByServiceDataName (singular).

Possible new bug: Simple fault 'expression type not supported' should be added to the general framework.

7) For reference this is the proposed discussion sequence for Events and Notification.

   Bugs (Grouped by related topics and hopefully in a sensible order):

         57 - We need events and Topics
         42 - The distinction between 'void return' and 'no return' in ...

         44 - Language linking notification subscriptions to SDEs.

         58 - Mechanism by which non-grid services can be "sinks"
         43 - The specialization of the DeliverNotification operation

         61 - Provide notification of distruction in the GSS

         66 - Allow modification of NotificationSubscriptions

         41 - Promote open standards over commercial products

Possibly related:

         50 - RegisterService Fault for Registry portType

8) Next meeting is the interim meeting at Argonne.

Teleconferences will resume as follows after the interim meeting.

There is a weekly teleconference on Wednesday pm (US & Europe) or
Thursday am (Asia-Pacific) at:

    14.00-15.30 US Pacific (e.g. Los Angeles)
    15.00-16.30 US Mountain (e.g. Denver)
    16.00-17.30 US Central (e.g. Chicago)
    17.00-18.30 US Eastern (e.g. New York)
    22.00-23.30 GMT
    22.00-23.30 UK (e.g. London)
    23.00-00.30 Central Europe (e.g. Paris)
    07.00-08.30 Japan (next day)

Teleconferences are scheduled for:
    November 6, 20, 27
    December 4, 11, 18

The teleconference information for all remaining scheduled teleconferences is:
    484-630-5376
    Pass code: 71180#

