Minutes of the Eleventh OGSI-WG Teleconference
20/Nov/2002 @ 21:30-23:00 GMT

Attendees:

Tim Bank <IBM>
Karl Czajkowski <USC/ISI>
Shel Finkelstein <Sun>
Bill Horn <IBM>
John Rofrana <IBM>
Andreas Savva <Fujitsu>
Dave Snelling <Fujitsu>
Steve Tuecke <ANL>
Pete Vanderbilt <NASA>

---------------------

1. Approval of Minutes

Rofrano didn't recall "Rejected: Add a delete operation. It will remain as proposed."  Will leave the delete operation in his latest proposal.  We can remove later as we evaluate the updated proposal.

---------------------

2. Review actions

Action: Jeff Frey to draw up a description of how to integrate the 'implicit' verses 'SDE' state dichotomy. Also look into other issues of coherency control. - Pending

Action: Steve T&G to push on W3C to get what we need (portType extension without breaking encapsulation). Take ownership. - Pending

Action: Pete to go through the SDEs in the spec to see if these changes have any gotchas.
  Done: Emailed results the list.  There were some gotchas.  Follow-up list.

Action: Tom Maguire and John R, not being happy with the mutability language, will propose new language reflecting the current meaning. - Pending

Action: Steve G & John R to update Service Data document and integrate the Set service Data Document. - Pending

Action: Dave S Faults summary. - Pending

Action: Dave S to write up a proposal
  Done (not sure what this is)

Action: Steve Graham and Pete to drive the creation of an XML Schema for the specification (#35) - Pending

Action: Steve Graham to craft language for recommendations to developers for use of resolvers (#17) - Pending

Action: Dave Snelling and Andrew Grimshaw to look at requirements and solutions for pull like semantics - Pending

Action: Steve G. and Jeff F. to send new position on topic based notification - Pending

Action: Shel will follow-up Events use cases for events and notification. - Pending

Action: All to post use cases for Notification/Events to the list.
  Done.

Action: Keith to post pointers to the Python implementation.
  Done.

Action: Dave S to put a proposition for registration portType, together
with exact text. - Pending

Action John Rofrano and Ellen Stokes will propose a setServiceDataByName(s) text.
Also by DB style Update if possible. Done, but reissued request for a new draft
following discussions on Nov 6th.

Action: Andrew G to write a document describing the options for reslover behavior. - Pending

Action: Steve T. publish spec and Resloved/Fixed bug numbers.
  Done.

Action: Steve T. Email list of proposed resolve->verified bugs.

Action: Pete V. and Steve T. to propose a more general solution to the extensibility argument pattern, see bug 34.

Action: Pete V. to create XML schema for locator elements, see bug 37.


---------------------

3. Bugzilla sweep

Bug 5: Reject (resolve, wontfix)

This is out of bounds of ogsi.  This is either a property of the service implementation, or is a language/domain specific extension to the base factory functionality.

Bug 17: Already an action

Bug 19: Resolve, later

Resolution:

  Change terminationTime input to be the <terminationTime> element, containing both the
      before and after values, to be initial values to the instance.
  Keep ServiceParameters input
  Keep ServiceLocator output
  Change CurrentTerminationTime output to also be a <terminationTime> element.
  Keep ServiceTimestamp to be consistent with setTermination* operation.  Rename to
      include the word "Current", to maintain symmetry with the setTermination* operations
  Remove MaximumExtension.
  Keep ExtensibilityOutput (but perhaps rename to be more consistent with input parameter name)

Bug 30, 31: Leave open

Bug 34: Leave open

Rename to: How to specify choices for extensibility arguments to operations

Do we have the right model for these operation templates?
To give more complete specifications, we start duplicating WSDL operation definitions.  Do we want to push for more direct operation parameter overloading in WSDL?  Or do we keep it in GSDL?  Do we just do something simple? This is probably a general pattern that needs to be solved, and not specific to just one or two operations. Action posted.

Bug 35: Leave open

Bug 37: Resolved, later

Resolution:

   No need for GSH in GSR, because we now have the locator as a way of passing
      around this relationship.
   Allow gsdl:goodFrom and gsdl:goodUntil to be carried as attributes of
      gsdl:serviceReference and gsdl:service Handle, with text on interpretation.
   gsdl:serviceLocator is a sequence of 0 or more gsdl:serviceReference, and 0 or
      more gsdl:serviceHandle.

Action posted.

--------------

4. Next Meeting:

December 4, Wednesday pm (US & Europe) or Thursday am (Asia-Pacific) at:

    13.30-15.00 US Pacific (e.g. Los Angeles)
    14.30-16.00 US Mountain (e.g. Denver)
    15.30-17.00 US Central (e.g. Chicago)
    16.30-18.00 US Eastern (e.g. New York)
    21.30-23.00 GMT
    21.30-23.00 UK (e.g. London)
    22.30-00.00 Central Europe (e.g. Paris)
    06.30-08.00 Japan (next day)

Teleconferences are scheduled for:
    December 11, 18
    January 8, 15

The teleconference information for all remaining scheduled teleconferences is:
    1-484-630-8733
    Passcode: 72316
