Minutes Sixteenth OGSI-WG Teleconference
January 29, 2003 @ 16:30 - 18:00 GMT

Attendees:

Tim Banks, IBM 
Karl Czajkowski, ISI
Shel Finkelstein, Sun 
Dave Snelling, Fujitsu 
Steve Tuecke, ANL 
Pete Vanderbilt, NASA 


1) Approve minutes (of both the interim meeting and Jan 27th)

   It was requested the terms of the draft CRM document release was .... 

2) Actions Review

Action: Tom M. provide XML Schema and WSDL for the specification. Use gwsdl for WSDL 1.2 extensions (#35) - Pending

Action: Pete V. to propose a more general solution to the extensibility argument pattern (#34) - Done

Action: Andrew G to write a document describing the options for reslover behavior (#17) - Pending

Action: Steve Graham to craft language for recommendations to developers for use of resolvers (#17) - Pending

Action: Steve T. and Steve G. to make sure that the WSDL group is aware of the OGSI's use of the WSDL 1.2 draft - Pending

Action: Steve G. to clarify the spec to make the differences between declaration, value, and element, e.g. clarify the conceptual model of Service Data types etc. - Pending

Action: Dave S to redraft fault words to reflect resolutions at January F2F and put Faults back on the agenda. - Pending
 
Action: Dave S will update bugzilla to reflect the call. - Done

3) Query by locator equivalence and other ServiceGroup unfinished business etc.

   This may be the "sameness" issue all over again. There are two definitions on the table
   at present (GSH textual equivalence and transitive Locator equivalence). In the current
   semantics for ServiceGroup, this query type is intended to decide whether the add
   operation adds a new entry or performs a replace of the contents. It could also serve as
   an argument to the remove operator (e.g. remove the equivalence class of all services
   equal by LocatorEquivalence, even if LocatorEquivalence  was not the Uniqueness property).
   It may also be used as an argument to findServiceData.

   As I see it the things to decide:

      - Do we need a uniqueness property and dual semantics on add?
      - Do we define any required/recommended query types for:
         - The Uniqueness Property (if we still have it).
         - The Match Expressions for remove.
         - Entries in the QueryExpressionTypes SDE.
      - If yes to the above, what are they?


Confirmed that driving destroy on a ServiceGroupEntry is equivalent to remove of that entry.

Discussion:
Revisitation of multiple GSHs in the same Locator.
The creation of Locators do not enforce and equality and therefore Locator equivalence can't be trusted. No action taken with respect to Locator definition or semantics.

Back to ServiceGroups:

Rejected: Leave the semantics to be defined by the actual service without any uniqueness property tag.

Resolved: The Uniqueness Property is a SDE containing a qname defining the add semantics.

Resolved: The Uniqueness Property "None" is to be specified in the GSS.

Resolved: Match expression types are XPath boolean valued applied to each entry in turn. Other approaches may be considered in V 1.1.

End of Meeting.

8) Next Meeting Monday February 3, 2003

Time:

  08:30-10:00 US Pacific
  09:30-11:00 US Mountain
  10:30-12:00 US Central
  11:30-13:00 US Eastern
  15:30-17:00 GMT
  16:30-18:00 UK
  17:30-19:00 Central Europe
  00:30-02:00 Japan

Place:

  484-630-8733
  passcode 89914


Issues from the Agenda to carry forward:

   *) Service data redirection. See Karl Czajkowski's mail ->
      Thu Dec 12, 2002: [ogsi-wg] find service data "links" in service data values?

   *) Resolver language

   *) Set Service Data Review


Bugs with actions assigned.

Bug 17 - Recommend client use of HandleResolver over direct resolver protocols
Bug 82 - New grid service instance registration to handle resolver
   Steve G. and Andrew G.

Bug 35 - normative XML schema is needed
   Tom M.

Bug 42 - The distinction between 'void return' and 'no return' in some operations
   Dave S. - Faults summary action.

Bug 50 - RegisterService Fault for Registry portType
Bug 63 - Replace WSIL (temporarily?) with a simple contents description.
Bug 68 - The a Registration a bag or set and what is the key?
Bug 69 - Timeout should be added back into the register operation in the Registration protType.
   Dave S. - Registration portType action.

Notification Bugs:

Bug 43 - The specialization of the DeliverNotification operation
Bug 61 - Provide notification of destuction in the GSS
Bug 66 - Allow modification of NotificationSubscriptions
Bug ?? - Deliver with ack issue??
Bug ?? - Review Notification status and language (was an agenda item).

WSDL Bugs:

Bug 62 - Do we need a way to mark operations in a portType optional?

Factory Bugs:

Bug 72 - mutability of gsdl:CreatesPortTypes and CreationInputTypes
Bug 73 - Factory::CreateService requester as SDE?
Bug 74 - strictness of gsdl:CreatesPortTypes commentary

Misc Bugs:

Bug 70 - Change SDE names from "...Types" to "...Elements"
Bug 39 - message identifier for audit
Bug 77 - serviceDataNames minOccurs should be 7
Bug 30 - Define queryByXPath
Bug 31 - Define queryByXQuery
Bug 44 - Language linking notification subscriptions to SDEs.
Bug 71 - CPU port-type example SDE inconsistent
Bug 81 - GSS and WS-SD need unification.


