Minutes for twenty-third OGSI-WG Teleconference
February 13, 2003 @ 17:00 - 19:00 GMT

Attendees:

Nick Butler - IBM
Karl Czajkowski - ISI
Steve Graham - IBM
Dave Snelling - Fujitsu
Steve Tuecke - ANL
Pete Vanderbilt - NASA

0) WSDL working voted to minimally support the compromise inheritance position that they worked out at the face to face, which minimally gives us what we need for portType inheritance without operation name collision problems.  They further resolved (~70%) to NOT address name operation overloading.

1) Approve minutes of February 5th, 7th, 10th, 11th, 12th Teleconferences

Approved

2) Open Issues:

2a) Resolver language and model.

Action: Steve T: In the HandleResolver portType section, remove all discussion of clients and resolver protocols, etc.  "Just state the facts, ma'am."

Action: Steve G: In section 3.2, add non-normative discussion on handles, references, how handles resolve to references via HandleResolver, etc.

Resolution: HandleResolver::FindByHandle.  Change Handle parameter to HandleSet, of type locator, but any references are ignored.  Change GSRSet to GSRExclusionSet, of type locator, with same semanics as currently.

2b) Do we nuke the Factory?

There seems to be tentative agreement on removing the Factory::CreateService operation.  Question is whether there are useful SDEs for this portType, that are appropriate to all Factories.  Will revisit tomorrow.

2c) How to sync the WSDL and the Spec by Friday PM -  No discussion.

3) New Issue: ResourceGroup

Went through the proposal sent to the ogsi-wg list.  There seems to be tentative agreement to refactor ServiceGroup to separate the SDEs from the operations.  Nick will come up with a proposal, for discussion tomorrow.

4) Consolidated Actions Review

Action: 17 & 82: --- --: Steve G: Finish the handle resolver protocol discussion (See Section 10)

Action:  67: --- --: ----- -: Check that draft schema support optional parameters, e.g. empty extensibility, See Section 9, and resolved bug 67.  Options: Define a <nil> element that can go into a ##any, or use substitution group, or use XSD nillable

Action: ---: Feb 12: Steve T: To check if Incorrectvalue is the right fault name in SetServiceData operation.

Action: ---: Feb 12: Steve T: Remove fault hierarchy from Spec. Deferred to V2.

Action:  49: Feb 13: Tom M: Make PT extensions explicit in the wsdl.
Action:  35: Feb 06: Steve T: Push Tom M. and Thomas S. to provide XML Schema and WSDL for the specification

Action: 86: Feb 12: Steve T: Check that our service data elements that need coherency semantics, e.g. non-static/non-constant, have them specified.

Action: ---: Feb 12: Steve G: To answer issues around SOAP 1.2 requirement for use of WSDL 1.2.

Action: ---: Feb 12: Steve T: To talk to Thomas about the tooling issue in more detail.

Action: ---: Feb 12: Steve T: To produce a GWSDL Draft.

Action:  55: Feb 11: Shel  F: Provide feedback on timestamp model in OASIS, we plan to punt to v1.1

Action: ---: --- --: Steve G: Create non-normative text for the service data section describing forward looking solutions to query processing via XPath/XQuery. (Sections 9.2.1.2/3, 6.2.1, 9.2.3)

Action: 93, 94: --- --: Steve T: Check and fix these bugzilla items

Action: Steve T: Substitute service data description with service data declaration.

Action: Steve T: some types use "ServiceType", and some use "GridServiceType".  Make these consistent

Action:  19: --- --: Steve T: Check as this bug has been resolved already. May just need to remove highlighting. (Section 12.2.1)

Action: ---: --- --: Steve T: Make sure that the WSDL group is aware of the OGSI's use of the WSDL 1.2 draft. Use the gwsdl draft to package notification.

Action:  42: --- --: ----- -: Andrea & Steve T & Dave: Complete the faults for all operations in all portTypes (Action on Feb 5).

Action: ---: Feb 13: Steve T: Check with Thomas about tooling impact of xsitype.

Action: ---: Feb 13: Steve T: SetServiceData Incorrectvalue for example. The language needs to be cleaned up here so that we can indicate which value has faulted.

Action: ---: Feb 13: Steve T: To check if these faults are needed (from GT3 alpha) findServiceData:InvalidQuery/QueryNotSupported; subscribe:SubscriptionTargetNotFound

Action: ---: Feb 13: Steve T: To check for MUSTs that should be SHOULDs with respect to Sink not being a GridService, e.g. MUST throw GSfault, etc.

Action: ---: Feb 13: Steve T: To send mail to ogsi-wg list on the issue of nuking the factory.

Action: ---: Feb 13: Pete V: Go through the various SDE names and operation parameters and suggest changes to make their names consistent.

5) Next Meetings:

Friday, Feb 14, 2003 (Note 2 hours).

  (1 hour later start)

  09:30-11:30 US Pacific
  10:30-12:30 US Mountain
  11:30-13:30 US Central
  12:30-14:30 US Eastern
  16:30-18:30 GMT
  17:30-19:30 UK
  18:30-20:30 Central Europe
  01:30-03:30 Japan

Place

  484-630-8733
  passcode 89914

Take care:

   Dr. David Snelling <d.snelling@fle.fujitsu.com>
   Fujitsu Laboratories of Europe
   Hayes Park Central
   Hayes End Road
   Hayes, Middlesex  UB4 8FE

   +44-208-606-4649 (Office)
   +44-208-606-4539 (Fax)
   +44-7768-807526  (Mobile)

