OGSA Teleconference - 15 June 2006
==================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Dave Snelling (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Apologies: Tom Maguire, Michael Behrens, Frank Siebenlist

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of Actions

  ACTION: Hiro to look into re-scheduling the Info Model rendering
          discussion to another day (Thursday?)

  ACTION: Andreas will categorize OGSA 1.5 issues and send the list to
          Dave Snelling.

  ACTION: Andreas and Hiro to talk offline about how to start sending
          ical invitations.

* Minutes June 12 approval postponed (no quorum)

* Security discussion postponed

* Actions review

  - Hiro will upload updated F2F agenda (mainly updates to the
    attendees list) 
    - Done
    
  - Hiro to talk with Chris Smith and clarify meaning of pre-script
    - Sent email, waiting.

  - Hiro to send Chris J the names of the people that provided Roadmap
    sections in the past.
    - Done

  - Jay will contact Platform (Chris Smith) and Condor (Miron Livny)
    to get feedback on pros / cons of the two rendering approaches
    (postpone until June 19); and
  - Darren/Andreas will take the Modeling position paper and discuss
    it within the JSDL-WG as well (postpone until June 19)

    - Jay has talked with Miron. There is no written material ready
      yet.
    - Andreas has raised the issue on the JSDL call. Overall it is not
      clear to people if this rendering choice boils down to anything
      more than a style choice.
    - People interested in this topic were asked to come to the OGSA
      call.

    - Because it is not clear who can attend on Monday the consensus
      was to move the Info Model discussion from Monday to another
      day, e.g., Thursday.

  ACTION: Hiro to look into re-scheduling the Info Model rendering
          discussion to another day (Thursday?)

* OGSA 1.5 Review

** OGSA 1.5: Architecture review

  - Andreas has uploaded Geoffrey Fox's presenation. He is reviewing
    it and will identify which issues relate to the document (there is
    at least one) and which do not. Items that do not relate to the
    document will be answered separately, perhaps as part of a Q&A on
    the WG's wiki.
  - Jay is also willing to provide answers to some of the issues.
  
  ACTION: Andreas will categorize OGSA 1.5 issues and send the list to
          Dave Snelling.

** OGSA 1.5: Glossary review

  - Reviewed Jem's proposed updates. (Details on Jem's updated draft.)
  - Agreed that the definition for 'provisioning/deployment' should be
    left for later; depending on whether there is sufficient consensus
    to change it. In any case the usage in the Arch document has not
    changed.

** Next steps

   - Agreed to do a final text review 2 weeks from now. It is ok to do
     the reviews of the two documents separately if necessary.

* Other business: OGSA Calendar

  - Andreas has set up and been updating an online google calendar. It
    has been visible to a small number of people. The plan is to make
    it publicly available so that people can refer to an up to date
    view of the teleconference and meeting schedule.
  - Jay proposed starting to send ical invitations to the list. Since
    the calendar account is on the list the online calendar view will
    be automatically updated---no need to manually enter events.
    - For example, Hiro would send an ical invitation instead of (or
      in addition to) the normal agenda.
  - The other advantage is that Hiro could get information on who
    intends to attend. This might be useful for F2F planning, e.g.,
    identify who plans to join which session by phone.
  - Agreed to schedule a short discussion (update) again on the
    Monday teleconference

  ACTION: Andreas and Hiro to talk offline about how to start sending
          ical invitations.
