OGSA-DMI telecon minutes
========================

15 November 2006

Participants
============
Allen Luniewski, IBM
Michel Drescher, Fujitsu

Apologies:
----------
Ravi Madduri, ANL
Paolo Badino, CERN
Gavin Mccance, CERN
Alex Sim, LBL
James Casey, CERN

Minutes: Michel Drescher

1) Early discussion
===================
- Telecon minutes approval
  -- Mintes of 18 Oct approved with minor changes.
  -- Mintes of 25 Oct approved.
  -- Mintes of  1 Nov approved.
  -- Mintes of  8 Oct approved.
  

2) Action Items
===============
- AI-10.11.a: DONE
- AI-10.11.b: DONE
- AI-10.11.c: No progress- AI-10.11.d: No progress
- AI-10.18.a: DONE- AI-10.18.b: DONE


3) Management
=============
- New conference time slot
  -- 8 am Pacific time
  -- Allen would be about 10 minutes late
  -- Would need to schedule "boring management stuff" to the beginning 
     to suit people on the US west coast
  -- Calls from 22 November on will be scheduled for 4 pm UTC.
- Map Action Items on GridForge
  -- Using it that way to track Action Items
  -- Not really an issue at the moment
  -- AI in the meeting agenda is sufficient at the moment
  -- Highly depends on the participant's GridForge usage
  -- The group reached consensus to not use GridForge Tasks to map Action Items.
- Document format on GridForge:
  -- PDF is fine for stable or final documents
  -- The current reality is that MS Office documents are the de facto standard 
     to create and edit documents
  -- Alternative solutions seem to be used by a minor fraction of OGF participants
     anyway
  -- The experience of the phone conf participants shows that no other WG so far
     challenged the MS Office document format for editable documents.
  -- The group reaches consensus that editable documents must be put on GridForge 
     in MS Office document format.
  -- Meeting minutes should be nothing else than ASCII.


4) Data Movement Interface Use Cases
====================================
- The discussion has been postponed for broader participation.


5) OGF-19 sessions
==================
- We need to submit session requests by the end of this week friday
- The sessions are 90 minutes each
- Half a day for OGSA-DMI is sufficient
- We will request two sessions
- Each prospect OGF-19 participant for OGSA-DMI should sent Michel a personal mail 
  list of constraints for clashes with other WG sessions or else.
  - Allan Luniewski's constraints:
    -- avoid conflict with OGSA-Data 
  - Michel Drescher's constraints:
    -- avoid conflict with JSDL
    -- avoid conflict with OGSA WG
    -- avoid conflict with OGSA-ByteIO
- Draft agenda:
  -- Functional specification
  -- Use Cases document

6) Wrap up
==========
- Date of next meeting    
  -- 22 November 2006 16:00 UTC
  -- Note: That week is US Thanksgiving holiday week!
  
  

Outstanding Action Items:------------------------AI-10.11.c: Ravi to write a data transfer use case collection for RFTAI-10.11.d: Alex to write a data transfer use case collection for SRM Copy