Grid Scheduling Architetcure Research Group
Telecon 05 Apr 2006

Participants:
-------------
Ariel Oleksiak
Philipp Wieder
Wolfgang Ziegler
Ramin Yahyapour

Notes:
------
Philipp

Agenda:
-------
1) Review actions from last telecon
2) Requirements document status
3) Requirements template changes
4) GGF 17 agenda 
5) AOB

Review actions from last telecon
--------------------------------
- Apologies from anybody, no new requirements until know. Everyone is working on the respective templates.

Requirements document status
----------------------------
- No progess.

GGF 17
------
- No external presentations.
- Present the document history.
- Potential next steps beyond the requirements document.
- Definition of an architecture - potential questions:
 * Level of abstraction? Are we precise enough?
 * Benefit for other people?
 * Implementation? Could GSA be implemented e.g. as a SOA?
 * How do scheduling instances interact in general?
- Co-operation with projects wrt to implementation of architetcure (e.g. CoreGRID, D-Grid).

AOB
---
- Based on the GGF 17 agenda discussion the topic of usability of a GSA for the different parties on the call has been addressed:
 * Uni Dortmund sees benefit regarding its involvement in D-Grid.
 * Fraunhofer SCAI is interested in GSA in context of the VIOLA project.
 * PSNC sees main benefit in interoperability of different scheduler instances, but this is something that is not delivered by a high-level arch. -> Request for interface level GSA definition.
 * Apart from the VIOLA project FZJ is mainly interested in the scientific outcome of the work.
- Close gap between the work done in groups like OGSA and the high-level GSA work.
 * The issues addressed in GSA are missing in work done by OGSA-RSS, OGSA-BES, etc.
 * This is als a point valuable to discuss at GGF 17.

Actions
-------
- Philipp: Send Ariel NextGRID work on Resource Management.
- Ariel: Send assingments for requirements to list.

Asignments for requirements
---------------------------
- Information Service: Ramin
- Job-/Workflow Requirement Description: Ariel, Philipp
- Resource Discovery: Philipp
- Reservation Management, Agreement and Negotiation: Ramin, Wolfgang
- Accounting: n.n.	
- Billing: n.n.	
- Job Management: Nicola
- Monitoring: n.n.	
- Data Management: Ramin, Wolfgang
- Network Management: Ramin, Wolfgang
- Performance Prediction: Ariel

Next telecon
------------
F2F meeting in Poznan April 20/21, 2006. Core group of GSA-RG will be there.