OGSA Teleconference - 12 June 2006
==================================

* Participants

  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jun Tatemura (NEC)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Chris Jordan (SDSC)
  Mike Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

  Apologies: Tom Maguire

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Summary of New Actions

  ACTION: Hiro will upload updated F2F agenda (mainly updates to the
          attendees list)
  ACTION: Hiro to talk with Chris Smith and clarify meaning of
          pre-script
  ACTION: Jun will correct the CDL XML examples written by Hiro.
  ACTION: Hiro to send Chris J the names of the people that provided
          Roadmap sections in the past.

* June 8 minutes approved with no changes

* July F2F updates

  ACTION: Hiro will upload updated F2F agenda (mainly updates to the
          attendees list)

* Action item review

  - EMS team to review data staging scenario (section 5 of
    https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc13591?nav=1) ...
  - Add sequence diagrams to the scenarios ...
  - Andreas will merge draft scenarios and sequence diagrams ...

  Above three actions to be re-reviewed on the next EMS call.
  
  - Jay will contact Platform (Chris Smith) and Condor ...
  - Darren/Andreas will take the Modeling position ...

  Above two actions to be re-reviewed on the next Information Modeling
  call

* CDDLM & EMS

  - Reviewed Hiro's presenation and XML documents.

  - Jun pointed out that codebase is used incorrectly. It should be
    used in the BLAST declaration not in the PosixApplication.
  - Also it is not clear what the meaning of pre-script is. 

  ACTION: Hiro to talk with Chris Smith and clarify meaning of
          pre-script
  ACTION: Jun will correct the CDL XML examples written by Hiro.

  - What should be the granular unit of components?
    - It may be better to define 'filesystem' or 'database' as
      separate components since they may be re-usable in other
      contexts. For example, they might be usable also by a 3-tier
      application component.
    - It was agreed that this kind of refinement is needed. But it is
      not a showstopper for delivering the top level CDL for the EMS
      sequence scenarios.

  - For the EMS scenarios the following CDL documents are needed:
    - Original CDL from the repository;
    - CDL modified by JM before submission to Deployment service
      (portal)
    - CDL after deployment (can be retrieved by JM to refine the JSDL
      document)
    [The deltas should be fairly small.]
  - Some explanation on what the constructs in the CDL document mean
    would also be useful since not everyone will have read the CDDLM
    documents.
  - Also highlighting what information (if any) is expected to taken
    from the JSDL document and used in CDL (and vice versa)
    - In the simplest case it is 'hostname' and path to the installed
      executable.
  - Andreas volunteered to review these CDL documents before the EMS
    call to make sure they provide the expected information.
    
  - What is filesystem 'normal' and 'temporary'?
    - These are JSDL terms defining filesystem persistency. They only
      address the simplest cases. More information (e.g., performance
      characteristics) may be added in but such information is not
      standardized by JSDL---though there may be examples in the spec.
    - Chris J mentioned that there has been some work on a Data
      Scenario (for GFS) that looks at how to represent a global
      filesystem (available locally or as a separate resource). It
      will eventually be included in the Scenarios document that Dave
      B mentioned on the last call.

* New Gridforge issues

  - The new WG page is different from the old one. Many links that Jem
    had added in the past are missing.
    - Andreas talked to Joel and was told that the new page is
      autogenerated from the live charter.
    - Jem will look into the possibility of customizing a part of the
      front page. In any case a WG wiki is available so a lot of the
      information should be put there.
  - There is a problem with the trackers. Artifacts with multiple
    files attached were not migrated correctly. (Only one file per
    artifact made it through; the rest came as 8 bytes.)
    - Andreas has submitted the issue on the gridforge feedback (wiki)
      page. The gridforge admins (Joel and Andre) are looking into
      it. Feedback wiki url:
      https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/wiki/do/viewPage/projects.ggf-info/wiki/GridforgeFeedback

* Roadmap update

  - Chris J has had a Roadmap Editor call and has sent the minutes out
    on the list.
  - A teleconference with Jem and Hiro and the new team should be
    arranged.

  ACTION: Hiro to send Chris J the names of the people that provided
          Roadmap sections in the past.
