Grid Scheduling Architetcure Research Group
Telecon 19 Jan 2006


Participants:
-------------
Ariel Oleksiak
Nicola Tonellotto
Philipp Wieder
Ramin Yahyapour

Notes:
------
Philipp

Agenda:
-------
1) Use case document
2) Requirements document
3) GGF 16
4) AOB

Use case document
-----------------
- The document will be finalised before GGF 16. Philipp is
  currently proof-reading it.

Requirements document
---------------------
- History:
 + At GGF 15 the essential GSA functions have been agreed 
   upon. This is already reflected by the document.
 + The progress in writing input for the different
   functions was somehow slow, one possible reason may 
   be the missing common structure for all functions.
 + This resulted in the creation of a template (thanks Ariel):
   https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/gsa-rg/document/GSA_Requirements_Template/en/1
 + In addition Ariel created an example (performance prediction):
   https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/gsa-rg/document/requirements_examples/en/1

- Review of the template:
 + Rename "existing technologies" to "references" and
   increase the box size.
 + In general only one box per row, with some exceptions.
 + Re-name "actors" to "acting entities".
 + There is no pre-defined list of "actors", this seems
   to be necessary.
 + Do we need help with the "references" from other groups? 
   A (Ramin): Not necessarily, we put in what we have. No 
   claim to be exhaustive. The document review may
   result in more.
 + One sub-subsection per function in the document plus
   an introductionary text.
 + Add a short name for every requirement.

- We use the performance prediction exmaple for GGF 16.

[act, Ariel] Change the template.
[act, Ramin] Compile list of "acting entities".

GGF 16
------
- Concerning the agenda see the following email thread:
  http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/gsa-rg/2006/01/msg00015.html

[act, Philipp] Contact Thomas to finalise agenda.

AOB
---
- Ramin takes care of another top-level task group for 
  daily group bizniz.

Next telecon
------------
03 Feb 2006, 15:00 CET, details via gsa-rg@ggf.org list


