DMI Telecon: 07 Feb 2007

Participants: Michel Drescher (Fujitsu), James Casey (CERN), Mario
Antonioletti (EPCC) 

Approval of minutes: 
Jan 24 Meeting Minutes  - Approved with no changes
OGF19 Minutes - Approved with no changes

Agenda Bashing: 
   add: Review what happened at OGF19 (5 min)

ACTION: Set up wiki page with participants +
affiliations (Michel)

OGF19: Covered a lot of sessions : GIN, EGR-RG -R, Data Area Meeting,
Condor Scheduling-R, Vendor adoption, GFS-WG, Genesis-II, Enterprise
grid best practices

ACTION:  Check which sessions Ravi actually got to (James)

* GFS : May be able to do DMI to do the file movement.  Also met the
  SNIA guys at this session. See potential along with SMI-S
  profile. They've suggested to host a F2F and do some SMI-S training
  for the WG.

* Genesis-II: Virginia : Two implementations right now, one is
  Genesis-II - open source, java.  Right now, not interested in data
  movement, but this might change later.

* Enterprise grid best practices: They would be good for feeding back
 use cases.

Sessions at OGF: Much better participation than at previous OGF
meetings.  Mostly worked on hacking the document and discussing the
topic.

OGSA-DMI F2F: Currently one 1 reply to Zoomerang survey.

James: Offered to host a F2F at CERN.

James: Is there is a OGSA data F2F that we could have a back to back ?
Mario: None planned before OGF20.

Michel: OGSA F2F is also the week after ~14th March in San Francisco -
that is a possibility.

James: Can work on architecture and topology sections.  
Michel: Important - not any node may want/or can talk to any node in
the grid in terms of connectivity and data protocols.

Mario: Do you mean with rollback, that there are transactions?
Michel: No, it's more 'cleanup' - call it UNDO.

James: wonder how you pass a multi-resource transfer - one source/sink
or many?
Michel: One EPR to represent the set of resources to transferred from
the source, and one for set of resources to be sent to the sink.

Mario: Do you get a service instance from the requestMovement() and
then ask it has the service been set up properly
Michel: Yes.  We also could support listeners.  Also, depending on the
rendering we can have a poll-based rendering too.

Mario: If I have comments on the document, what's the best way to get
them back?
Michel: Several ways: send to mailing list, or add the comments direct
to document.
Mario: Also a possibility to do artifacts on gridforge, this or
comments to the list both work well.
