{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 OGSA DMI Skype Telecon - 10th Dec 2010, 9am GMT/10am CET\
--------------------------------------------------------\
\
Present:\
   David Meredith, STFC [DM]\
   Shahbaz Memon, FZJ [SM]\
   Mario Antonioletti, EPCC [MAA]\
   Steve Crouch, University of Southampton [STC]\
\
Agenda:\
\
1. Agenda bashing\
2. Actions review\
3. The 'OGSA-DMI Plain Web Services Rendering Specification 1.0'\
     -- Document currently in public comments phase (noted by Andre Merzky)\
     -- How to move this forward\
4. DMI strawman\
     -- Current status and future work\
5. Progress update\
6. Planning\
     -- Any early plans for OGF31?\
7. AOB\
8. Date of next meeting\
\
The previous meeting minutes (8am, 22nd April) were posted to the\
OGSA-DMI list following the meeting and can also be found on OGF\
GridForge at: http://tinyurl.com/36y778g\
\
\
1. Agenda bashing\
\
2. Actions review\
\
New Actions:\
------------\
\
[SM] Send email about publishing WS-I rendering to Greg Newby, stating all comments from public comments phase taken into account (only the comments from SM!).\
\
[MAA] Review draft email to Greg Newby.\
\
[All] Draft scope for new version of spec (in bullet points).\
 - STC as GIN-CG co-chair input to scoping discussion.\
\
[SM/MAA] Take GridForge Wiki and write-up in experiment document to start proper in March, but MAA to have a look beforehand if possible.\
\
[STC] Send Doodle for next week Skype meeting aimed towards scoping next version of spec.\
\
\
Completed Actions:\
------------------\
\
[STC] Email Justin's contact details to DM to discuss Commons-VFS\
\
[SM] EMail OGSA-DMI list with agenda for strawman tech. meeting on Wed 12th May at 11am\
\
[STC] Email Steve Tuecke and Ravi with paper and strawman \
(stipulate non-circulation for paper - it's not published yet!)\
[STC] Query Ravi about involvement with OGSA-DMI to engage Globus - and\
get a technical contact\
     - Awaiting reply from Ravi and/or Steve Tuecke by Friday\
     - DM has been in touch with Ravi and Raj, not much commitment at this stage\
     - MAA: not really relevant for them anymore\
\
[STC] Email Steve Tuecke and Ravi with paper and strawman presentation (stipulate non-circulation for paper - it's not published yet!)\
\
[DM/SM] Look at functional spec and evaluate necessary changes w.r.t.\
strawman\
     - And post up an example\
     - Propose a timeline for OGF29\
     - By weekend - edit strawman doc, make next telecon a tech telecon with at least SM, DM, GG\
\
[DM/SM] Improve the strawman document in collaboration\
      - Catch up required to merge changes and discuss points\
      - Need to change functional spec\
      - Couple of days effort\
      - Feedback is important\
      - Uploaded strawman up to GridForge about changes for functional spec\
\
[DM] Upload strawman document to the gridforge in order to have more\
visibility to other participants\
      - Effectively the presentation uploaded to OGF28 is a first draft\
      - Functional spec - change directly?\
      - For strawman, just upload the schema for now\
\
\
Ongoing Actions:\
----------------\
\
[PT] To circulate progress update on implementation\
\
[STC] Draft an extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data\
copying activity\
     - Edit the version on the GridForge website - the master version\
\
Aside: paper could be published in June-ish\
\
[DM/STC] Ask Andrew Grimshaw and Mark Morgan from University of Virginia\
about:\
     - Element references with BulkDataCopy\
     - DEPRs and EPRs - opinions on how best to proceed\
     - Send presentation to them but summarise in bullet points in the\
email; include corrorobative statements from S.Newhouse\
     - OGF29 attendance\
     - STC to draft first email today, DM to amend, send by tomorrow\
\
3./4./5. Discussion:\
\
DM: created home-cooked version for DataMINX.  Still very relevant.  Move spec towards DataMINX implementation.\
\
SM: unicore implementation based on current version.\
\
MAA: spec not yet gone through ratification process.  WS-I rendering stuck in pipeline.\
\
SM: WSRF subclass of WS-I model; unicore interoperable with all imps that are WS-I compliant.\
\
Accept WS-I rendering, and work on new version of spec.\
\
New action: [SM] Email about publishing WS-I rendering to Greg Newby, stating all comments taken into account (comments from SM!).\
\
New action: [MAA] Review draft email to Greg Newby.\
\
New action: [All] Draft scope for new version of spec (in bullet points).\
 - STC as GIN-CG co-chair input to scoping discussion.\
\
New action: [SM/MAA] Take GridForge Wiki and write-up in experiment document to start proper in March, but MAA to have a look beforehand if possible.\
\
New action: [STC] Send Doodle for next week Skype meeting aimed towards scoping next version of spec.\
\
Staff resourcing with DataMINX an issue on both Australian and UK sides.\
\
6. Planning\
\
OGF31 attendance: SM and STC maybe attending.\
\
7. Date of next meeting\
\
DONM: By Doodle poll\
}