OGSA DMI Skype Telecon - 25 March 2010, 8am GMT
-----------------------------------------------

Present:
  Steve Crouch, University of Southampton [STC]
  Shahbaz Memon, FZJ [SM]
  Mario Antonioletti, EPCC [MAA]
  David Meredith, STFC [DM]

Agenda:

  1. Agenda bashing
  2. Actions review
  3. OGF28 feedback
    -- Some suggested next steps from OGSA-DMI session (the 'new
actions' below)
    -- Interactions with JSDL group
  4. Extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data copying
  5. Opening up an interaction channel with EGI for data movement
  6. Planning
  7. AOB
  8. Date of next meeting

1. Agenda bashing

2. Actions

Completed Actions:
------------------

[MAA] Will host OGF session with SC and attends the DataArea meeting
  Data Area meeting:
  - Reasonably pleased with DMI progress
  - Interactions with JSDL seen as positive

[STC] Query Shahbaz about status of FZJ implementation
  - Implementation opened on SourceForge, but not up-to-date with current UNICORE components (Dec 2008 last version)


New Actions:
------------

[STC] Draft an extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data
copying activity

[DM] Clarify a few points on strawman slides (inc. JSDL approaches, in-line vs element references)

[STC] After strawman slides updated, send slides to S.Newhouse for feedback and canvassing requirements

[DM/SM] Look at functional spec and evaluate necessary changes w.r.t. strawman

[STC] Query Ravi about involvement with OGSA-DMI to engage Globus - and get a technical contact

[DM/STC] Ask Andrew Grimshaw and Mark Morgan from University of Virginia about:
 - Element references with BulkDataCopy
 - DEPRs and EPRs - opinions on how best to proceed

[SM] To send round link to DMI implementation on SourceForge


Ongoing Actions:
----------------

[SM] Improve the strawman document in collaboration with DM
  - Catch up required to merge changes and discuss points
  - Need to change functional spec

[DM] Upload strawman document to the gridforge in order to have more
visibility to other participants
  - Effectively the presentation uploaded to OGF28 is a first draft
  - Functional spec - change directly?

New actions (to be discussed) from OGF28: discussed, confirmed/extended and moved into new actions above.


3. OGF 28 feedback

Review of DM's 'Bulk Data Copy - Generalisations' strawman presentation given in OGSA-DMI session at OGF28:
 - Idea to canvas opinions, ideally A.Grimshaw & S.Newhouse
 - Presentation given in JSDL WG - Andreas Savva amenable to approach 1 (new JSDL Application approach) idea
Discussion on approach for JSDL:
 - Must emphasize separation of interface and activity description in func.spec. - reusability of DMI-Common in other specs (e.g. JSDL)
 - Defined as a JSDL extension (like HPCProfileApplication)
 - Profile BES substates as DMI-based specialisations - discussion of BES state models and issues
 - Orchestration of copy activities required? - any requirements for this?
 - Element references as opposed to inline elements - references best way

New action: [DM] Clarify a few points on strawman slides (inc. JSDL approaches, in-line vs element references)

New action: [DM/STC] Ask Andrew Grimshaw and Mark Morgan from University of Virginia about:
 - Element references with BulkDataCopy
 - DEPRs and EPRs - opinions on how best to proceed 

New action: [STC] Query Ravi about involvement with OGSA-DMI to engage Globus - and get a technical contact

GLUE2 - want to deal with data services as well, which aren't well catered for in GLUE; should get involved.

New action: [SM] To send round link to DMI implementation on SourceForge


4. Extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data copying

Consensus that OGSA-DMI should extend its charter - it doesn't really cover current bulk data copy activities.

New action: [STC] Draft an extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data copying activity


5. Opening up an interaction channel with EGI for data movement

Talk to S.Newhouse, keep him in the loop.  Get Steven to comment on DM's slides and canvas requirements.

New action: [STC] After strawman slides updated, send slides to S.Newhouse for feedback and canvassing requirements

Discussion of BES state and DMI state models, relationship, and func.spec. - DMI state model shouldn't change, but proposed DMI-Common could be used within BES state model.


6. Planning

Next telecon - define timeline for merging DMI strawman into func.spec.


7. AOB


8. DONM

Proposed next meeting on 22nd April 8am BST (GMT+1) via Skype.

