OGSA DMI Skype Telecon - 6 May 2010, 11am BST/GMT+1
---------------------------------------------------

Present:
   David Meredith, STFC [DM]
   Shahbaz Memon, FZJ [SM]
   Peter Turner, University of Sydney[PT]
   Gerson Galang, VeRSI [GG]
   Steve Crouch, University of Southampton [STC]

Agenda:
      1. Agenda bashing
      2. Actions review
      3. Progress update
      4. DMI strawman
        -- Feedback required from group
        -- Define timeline for merging DMI strawman into func.spec.
      5. Planning
        -- Who is going to OGF29?
      6. AOB
      7. Date of next meeting

Anyone interested in joining the skype call please contact me on my
Skype id: s.crouch2000 .

The previous meeting minutes (8am, 22nd April) were posted to the
OGSA-DMI list following the meeting and can also be found on OGF
GridForge at: http://tinyurl.com/36y778g


1. Agenda bashing

2. Actions review

New Actions:
------------

[STC] Email Steve Tuecke and Ravi with paper and strawman 
(stipulate non-circulation for paper - it's not published yet!)

[PT] To circulate progress update on implementation

[STC] Email Justin's contact details to DM to discuss Commons-VFS

[SM] EMail OGSA-DMI list with agenda for strawman tech. meeting on Wed 12th May at 11am


Completed Actions:
------------------

[STC] Set up a Google poll for next call - and post to the OGSA-DMI list


Ongoing Actions:
----------------

[STC] Draft an extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data
copying activity
     - Edit the version on the GridForge website - the master version

[DM/SM] Look at functional spec and evaluate necessary changes w.r.t.
strawman
     - And post up an example
     - Propose a timeline for OGF29
     - By weekend - edit strawman doc, make next telecon a tech telecon with at least SM, DM, GG

[STC] Query Ravi about involvement with OGSA-DMI to engage Globus - and
get a technical contact
     - Awaiting reply from Ravi and/or Steve Tuecke by Friday
     - DM has been in touch with Ravi and Raj, not much commitment at this stage

New action: [STC] Email Steve Tuecke and Ravi with paper and strawman presentation (stipulate non-circulation for paper - it's not published yet!)

Aside: paper could be published in June-ish

[DM/STC] Ask Andrew Grimshaw and Mark Morgan from University of Virginia
about:
     - Element references with BulkDataCopy
     - DEPRs and EPRs - opinions on how best to proceed
     - Send presentation to them but summarise in bullet points in the
email; include corrorobative statements from S.Newhouse
     - OGF29 attendance
     - STC to draft first email today, DM to amend, send by tomorrow

[DM/SM] Improve the strawman document in collaboration
      - Catch up required to merge changes and discuss points
      - Need to change functional spec
      - Couple of days effort
      - Feedback is important

[DM] Upload strawman document to the gridforge in order to have more
visibility to other participants
      - Effectively the presentation uploaded to OGF28 is a first draft
      - Functional spec - change directly?
      - For strawman, just upload the schema for now

3. Progress update (implementation)

New action: [PT] To circulate progress update on implementation

New action: [STC] Email Justin's contact details to DM to discuss Commons-VFS

4. DMI strawman
   - Feedback required from group
   - Define timeline for merging DMI strawman into func.spec.

Most controversial is element references part; otherwise very straightforward to integrate into func spec.
UNICORE doesn't have anything that uses element references, nor does GridSAM, should we use it as an approach?  From OGF, someone will probably point this out.  Tooling support: need more effort on validation of document.  Can validate syntactically at a basic level, but not check typing within document.  Steve McGough: everything was defined in-line for JSDL.  Should we canvas opinion?  People from KnowARC - would this be a feasible approach for them?  We should be careful with tooling/features that are not supported in APIs and frameworks.  Proposal: just do inline approach for now.  Tech design issue - need opinions from Globus, and others.  In Globus.org SaaS - ask direct: what is the message format they use to describe data transfer?

DM's presentation - in strawman, just focus on common DMI-Common data reqs description and have BES/JSDL service rendering in separate document (e.g. a profile).  Possible then to have example renderings in both DMI and BES/JSDL.  JSDL WG prefer the Application element approach for specifying the DMI common reqs.

5. Planning
   - Who is going to OGF29?

Usually attendance in US is lower that in Europe.  Wait until next European/Brussels meeting.

6. AOB

Next tech DMI session to use Google docs as a means to share and update documentation.

7. Date of next meeting

Next meeting (tech) Wednesday 11am.  Shahbaz to email around the agenda for that.

New action: [SM] EMail OGSA-DMI list with agenda for strawman tech. meeting on Wed 12th May at 11am

