OGSA DMI Skype Telecon - 11th Mar 2011, 9am GMT/10am CET
--------------------------------------------------------

Present:
   David Meredith, STFC [DM]
   Shahbaz Memon, FZJ [SM]
   Mario Antonioletti, EPCC [MAA]
   Steve Crouch, University of Southampton [STC]

Agenda:

1. Agenda bashing
2. Actions review
3. Discussion - planning/reviewing content for the next version of the spec
4. Planning
5. AOB
6. DONM

You can find the previous meeting (25th Feb 2011) minutes with actions, at http://tinyurl.com/6au5jty.

1. Agenda bashing

2. Actions review

Completed Actions
-----------------

[SM] To arrange a session for OGF31: update on our progress, spec, etc.
 - Done - on schedule

New Actions
-----------

[STC] What interfaces does Globusonline.org support?
[DM] Upload draft materials to GridForge
[DM] Ask Michel to comment on the spec so far - through joining OGF31 session?

Ongoing Actions
---------------

[SM] Present update to data area manager about status of DMI at OGF31
 - With input/assistance from David
 - To forward to DMI list

[STC] OGSA-DMI implementation for GSoC 2011 idea - to NCH
 - Set up through OGF to hedge our bets
 - Phase 1: Plain Web Service Rendering first
 - Phase 2: Extend to have WSRF Rendering, and experiences document
 - Phase 2: New version spec
 - Sell as multi-national collaboration :)

[STC] Draft an extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data
copying activity
     - Edit the version on the GridForge website - the master version
[STC] To review DM's contributions to the draft spec

[DM] To have a chat with Jens Jensen about data requirements and DMI, and who else may be interested
[DM] To take the pen for porting existing content into draft spec for next two weeks
     - To finish draft in next week

New action: [DM] Upload draft materials to GridForge
New action: [DM] Ask Michel to comment on the spec so far - through joining OGF31 session?

[DM] Ask Mark Morgan from University of Virginia about (in the context of JSDL):
     - Element references with BulkDataCopy
     - DEPRs and EPRs - opinions on how best to proceed
     - Send presentation to them but summarise in bullet points in the
email; include corrorobative statements from S.Newhouse
     - Leave for now, ask them later when we have a spec

[SM] To contact Greg to check status of rendering specification
 - Been looked at by the council, awaiting AD input
 - Shahbaz to catch up with Greg/Joel at OGF31
[SM] To contact dCache and University of Dresden to engage them in DMI
 - To suggest DMI in OCCI spec public comments
 - Two documents moved out of public comments, OCCI doesn't include data really
 - Chatting with people with Open Cloud Consortium, more interested in data
[SM/MAA] Take GridForge Wiki and write-up in experiment document to start proper in March, but MAA to have a look beforehand if possible.
     - Shahbaz/Mario - starting now

[PT] To circulate progress update on implementation


3. Discussion - planning/reviewing content for the next version of the spec

Implementations: GridSAM, wish to do so, if effort can be found longer term.  Interface: transport agnostic - can be either REST or SOAP. UNICORE imp. compliant with existing spec (supports basic use cases ftp -> ftp, gridftp -> gridftp).

To follow through this through EGI?  EMI: UNICORE implementation, IGE: Globusonline.org.

New action: [STC] What interfaces does Globusonline.org support?

Provide interoperability through common interface client?

4. Planning

5. AOB

6. DONM
 - 18th March 9.30am GMT/10.30 CET
