OGSA DMI Skype Telecon - 28th Jan 2011, 9am GMT/10am CET
--------------------------------------------------------

Present:
   David Meredith, STFC [DM]
   Steve Crouch, University of Southampton [STC]

Agenda:

1. Agenda bashing
2. Actions review
3. Discussion - planning content for the next version of the spec
    -- You can find the structural draft spec on the OGF GridForge site
at http://tinyurl.com/6zby273
4. Planning
5. AOB
6. DONM

You can find the previous meeting (7th Jan 2011) minutes with actions,
here: http://tinyurl.com/34vdw39

1. Agenda bashing

2. Actions review

[SM/MAA] Take GridForge Wiki and write-up in experiment document to start proper in March, but MAA to have a look beforehand if possible.

[STC] Template of new DMI-Common spec by next week

[STC] To request input & feedback from Shahbaz Memon, FZJ

[DM] Put links to DMI Common resources on GridForge OGSA-DMI WG [DONE]

[All] Draft scope for new version of spec (in bullet points).
 - STC as GIN-CG co-chair input to scoping discussion.

[PT] To circulate progress update on implementation

[STC] Draft an extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data
copying activity
     - Edit the version on the GridForge website - the master version

[DM] Ask Mark Morgan from University of Virginia about (in the context of JSDL):
     - Element references with BulkDataCopy
     - DEPRs and EPRs - opinions on how best to proceed
     - Send presentation to them but summarise in bullet points in the
email; include corrorobative statements from S.Newhouse
     - OGF29 attendance
     - STC to draft first email today, DM to amend, send by tomorrow

3. Discussion - planning content for the next version of the spec
    -- You can find the structural draft spec on the OGF GridForge site
at http://tinyurl.com/6zby273

Action: [DM] To take the pen for porting existing content into draft spec for two weeks

Focus on content initially, then we can move to review after David's insertions.

Action: [STC] To review DM's contributions to the draft spec

4. Planning

STC to attend OGF31.  DM probably not attending, but not definitive.

Action: [STC] To arrange a session for OGF31: update on our progress, spec, etc.
Action: [STC] To chat to Shahbaz about attendance

5. AOB

6. DONM

February 11th 2011, 10am CET/9am GMT.
