OGSA DMI Skype Telecon - 25th Feb 2011, 9am GMT/10am CET
--------------------------------------------------------

Present:
   David Meredith, STFC [DM]
   Shahbaz Memon, FZJ [SM]
   Mario Antonioletti, EPCC [MAA]
   Steve Crouch, University of Southampton [STC]

Agenda:

1. Agenda bashing
2. Actions review
3. Discussion - planning/reviewing content for the next version of the spec
4. Planning
5. AOB
6. DONM

You can find the previous meeting (28th Jan 2011) minutes with actions, http://tinyurl.com/5voxcsk

1. Agenda bashing

1.1 DMI session at OGF

Have requested a session at OGF31 in Taiwan, Shahbaz is attending.  Lack of parallel sessions may increase attendance.  To present proposal for status and multiple transfers, which we can discuss in a future telecon.  Have choices, to select one in middle if possible.


2. Actions review

Completed Actions
-----------------

[STC] To request input & feedback from Shahbaz Memon, FZJ [DONE]
[STC] To chat to Shahbaz about attendance [DONE]


New Actions
-----------

[SM] To arrange a session for OGF31: update on our progress, spec, etc.
[SM] Give update to data area manager about status of DMI before OGF31 - 2 slides by March

[STC] OGSA-DMI implementation for GSoC 2011 idea - to NCH
 - Phase 1: Plain Web Service Rendering first
 - Phase 2: Extend to have WSRF Rendering, and experiences document
 - Phase 2: New version spec
 - Sell as multi-national collaboration :)


Ongoing Actions
---------------

[STC] Draft an extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data
copying activity
     - Edit the version on the GridForge website - the master version
[STC] To review DM's contributions to the draft spec

[DM] To have a chat with Jens Jensen about data requirements and DMI, and who else may be interested
[DM] To take the pen for porting existing content into draft spec for next two weeks
     - To finish draft in next week
[DM] Ask Mark Morgan from University of Virginia about (in the context of JSDL):
     - Element references with BulkDataCopy
     - DEPRs and EPRs - opinions on how best to proceed
     - Send presentation to them but summarise in bullet points in the
email; include corrorobative statements from S.Newhouse
     - OGF29 attendance
     - STC to draft first email today, DM to amend, send by tomorrow

[SM] To contact Greg to check status of rendering specification
 - Been looked at by the council, awaiting AD input
[SM] To contact dCache and University of Dresden to engage them in DMI
 - To suggest DMI in OCCI spec public comments
 - Two documents moved out of public comments, OCCI doesn't include data really
 - Chatting with people with Open Cloud Consortium, more interested in data
[SM/MAA] Take GridForge Wiki and write-up in experiment document to start proper in March, but MAA to have a look beforehand if possible.
     - Shahbaz would like to start at end of Feb

[PT] To circulate progress update on implementation

Aside point: SM: GSoC - what about last year's GSoC DMI implementation idea?

New Action: [STC] OGSA-DMI implementation for GSoC 2011 idea - to NCH
 - Phase 1: Plain Web Service Rendering first
 - Phase 2: Extend to have WSRF Rendering, and experiences document
 - Phase 2: New version spec
 - Sell as multi-national collaboration :)

3. Discussion - planning/reviewing content for the next version of the spec

Two schemas, one instance document, namespace temporary for now.  Uses referenced 'SharedElements' concept.

New Action: [DM] To upload schema and example files to OGSA-DMI WG SourceForge.  Need to address extensibility/interoperability tradeoffs - perhaps done through profiles?  Perhaps use GLUE2 as inspiration?

4. Planning

New Action: [All] To individually review in detail DM's work so far and provide feedback

5. AOB

6. DONM
 - Friday March 11th, 9am GMT/10am CET 