OGSA DMI Skype Telecon - 7th Jan 2011, 9am GMT/10am CET
-------------------------------------------------------

Present:
   David Meredith, STFC [DM]
   Peter Turner, University of Sydney [PT]
   Steve Crouch, University of Southampton [STC]

Agenda:

1. Agenda bashing
2. Actions review
3. Discussion - scoping the next version of the spec
4. Planning
5. AOB
6. DONM

The previous meeting minutes (9am GMT/10am CET, 10th December) can 
be found on OGF GridForge at: http://tinyurl.com/2vefd4s 

1. Agenda bashing

2. Actions review

New Actions:
------------

[SM/MAA] Take GridForge Wiki and write-up in experiment document to start proper in March, but MAA to have a look beforehand if possible.

[STC] Template of new DMI-Common spec by next week

[STC] To request input & feedback from Shahbaz Memon, FZJ

[DM] Put links to DMI Common resources on GridForge OGSA-DMI WG [DONE]


Completed Actions:
------------------

[SM] Send email about publishing WS-I rendering to Greg Newby, stating all comments from public comments phase taken into account (only the comments from SM!).

[MAA] Review draft email to Greg Newby.

[STC] Send Doodle for next week Skype meeting aimed towards scoping next version of spec.

[DM] Put links to DMI Common resources on GridForge OGSA-DMI WG


Ongoing Actions:
----------------

[All] Draft scope for new version of spec (in bullet points).
 - STC as GIN-CG co-chair input to scoping discussion.

[PT] To circulate progress update on implementation

[STC] Draft an extension to OGSA-DMI charter to encompass bulk data
copying activity
     - Edit the version on the GridForge website - the master version

Aside: paper could be published in June-ish

[DM/STC] Ask Andrew Grimshaw and Mark Morgan from University of Virginia
about:
     - Element references with BulkDataCopy
     - DEPRs and EPRs - opinions on how best to proceed
     - Send presentation to them but summarise in bullet points in the
email; include corrorobative statements from S.Newhouse
     - OGF29 attendance
     - STC to draft first email today, DM to amend, send by tomorrow

3. Discussion:

Overview of approach:
 - Two separate functional docs - DMI common spec (focus on this first) & service-level
 - Renderings of DMI-Common e.g. JSDL Application Profile

Strawman DMI2 Common example:

http://forge.gridforum.org/sf/docman/do/listDocuments/projects.ogsa-dmi-wg/docman.root.meeting_materials.ggf_ogf_conventions.ogf28

New action: [DM] Put links to DMI Common resources on the OGSA-DMI WG SF resources

Suggested sections:

- Architectural
  -- The 'big picture'
  -- Still need to be defined (pseudo-schema examples) bulk documents in e.g. JMS, web service
  -- Detail later will need to relate back to architectural aspects

- DMI-Common
  -- Overview of the schema
  -- DataCopyActivity, Copy, URIProperties, CreationFlag, CopyRequirements, Source, Sink, etc.
  -- Examples

- Example rendering in appendix:
  -- http://code.google.com/p/dtsproject/source/browse/trunk/dts-schema/src/test/resources/test1.xml?r=635

New action: [STC] Template of new DMI-Common spec by next week
New action: [STC] To request input & feedback from Shahbaz Memon, FZJ

4. Planning

STC to work on template next week.
DM to put in effort on best effort basis.
PT currently investigating resources available.

OGF31 attendance: SM and STC maybe attending.

5. AOB

6. Date of next meeting

9am GMT/10am CET, 28th January, 2011. 
