OGSA-WG Teleconference - 30 August 2004
=======================================

* Participants

  Ian Foster (ANL)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Bill Horn (IBM)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Susan Malaika (IBM)
  Bryan Murray (HP)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)
  Jeffrin Von Reich (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Agenda bashing
  
  - Agreed on the agenda that Andrew sent out before the call

  - Objectives
    - What are we trying to do?
    - Other standards we MUST work with
  - Discuss straw man document and received comments 
    - (Ian's, Bryan, Peter's, OGSA-DAI document sent by Dave Berry
      only to Andrew (others haven't seen it))
    - Line item and philosophy
    - Distinguish DESIRABLE properties versus REQUIRED properties
  - Is there an existing STANDARD that meets the requirements? 
    - (There are many existing implementations)
  - Next steps.

* Define the problem to solve

  - Initial target
    - Not trying to do new grid specific standard
      - It should useful to the wider community and not just the Grid
        - Difficult to make sure that wider community will accept
          something developed just within GGF
          - Need a lot of marketing effort to get buy-in
      - Identify where work should be done to be adopted by the wider
        community.
    - Not aiming to just come up with a specific naming scheme
    - Make the case for the need for a naming scheme and possibly do
      some prototype work on proposal
    - And sell it to major players
      - For both political and technical reasons: need to make sure
        major players are involved to ensure success

  - Do we anticipate a single set of requirements and solution or a
    range of solutions?
    - Initial step is try to build a case for naming
      - Determine required vs desirable properties
    - There are probably going to be some core requirements
      - In the end classify requirements using MUST/SHOULD/CAN
        categories
      - Also have to show that these are not addressed in existing
        standards
    - (And convince people that there is a need for a base name
      scheme vs N schemes)

* Other related/required standards

  - Anything that does references: e.g., WS-Addressing, or the related
    but different proposal from Oracle (WS-MessageDelivery?)

  - WSRF subgroup trying to unify approaches of using WS-Addressing
    - It's an open question whether WSRF (RR) can (be tweaked to)
      fulfill naming requirements.
      - There is no RR spec publically available right now

  - A suggestions was to do a wider search for similar efforts within
    other standards work, e.g., W3C.

  - (Commercial area has been slow to see the need for naming.)

* Document walkthrough

  Ref: https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/ogsa-naming/en/2

** Introduction

  - The document has no motivation section yet.
    - Andrew will add it before distributing it to a wider audience
    
  - Does naming need to be defined separately from metadata?
    - Metadata mapping (e.g., directory) is higher level (third level)
    - Here deal with bottom two levels: addresses and abstract names
    - This point (3 levels) should be made clear in the
      introduction. It goes to defining the problem to be addressed.

  - Mapping directly human name to physical/address?
    - Some implementations might want that; some existing systems do
      it.
    - But some flexibility is lost in doing so
   
  - Use cases
    - Need to come up with as many as possible
    - (To identify as broad set of requirements as possible; and then
      classify them)

** Terms

   - Make clearer distinction, if any, between service and resource.

   - Need for extensibility because it is unlikely that one proposal
     can address all future requirements.

   - Security and naming connection:
     - Should discuss more the need to support different
       authentication schemes; might have to conform to different
       ones.
    
   - "...number information."
     - 'cardinality' is probably more correct
     - Refers to replicants (clients can't distinguish between them)
    
   - Resource identity and WS-Security terminology 
     - (Not sure yet how to phrase this)

   - Binding time: when and how often to refresh mapping

** Desirable properties

   - Try to tie desirable properties (back) to use cases

   - Alias
     - If an id matches they are the same; if not they might still be;
       and need for more checks.
     - (This is the same as WSDM)

   - Location portability:
     - Name maps to same resource regardless where it is used
     - Conference room counter-example; find a room based on location
       of inquiry. (i.e., ability to get service nearby.)
     - Andrew thinks this should be done at a higher level; above naming
       - E.g., PDA querying its location and then asking for room
         nearby
       - Leads to question of how to find one's location? Typically
         broadcasting is used.
     - Not clear that this property falls in desirable or not.
     - But does sound like a use case to consider.
     
   - Transparencies: Agreed that not all are needed in all cases

   - Trust:
     - Don't require trust but the ability to support trust.
     - (Current (grid) environment is in a sense more trusted than the
       (potential) global one.)
     - A desirable rather than required property

   - Agreed on need to be more specific on performance, etc.

   - Binding:
     - Bind whenever you need to and get the 'right' answer
     - Ability to detect stale bindings (e.g., by receiving faults)
     - And how to detect that if a binding is returned then it does
       map to the desired entity
       - Ties into security/authentication

   - Free (no licensing):
     - Handle.net one example of a nice approach that is unfortunately
       not royalty free for commercial use.
     - Consensus that RF is a requirement for something as basic as
       naming

   - Additional commenton Versioning:
     - Will add in but not sure if it is required; could be done at
       higher level.
     - 'Same' document vs different documents

* Related work

   - Handle.net: lots of nice properties. More of a directory service
     than a naming scheme
   - Life Science Identifier (LSID)
     - Persistent identifier (identifying proteins and related
       annotations across time/organizations)
     - IBM reference implementation

   - WSRF/RR
     - RR document not available yet

   - "Scalable Naming in Global Middleware" (citeseer reference by Ian)

   - WSDM definition: UUID. Deals with identification rather than
     naming scheme.

* Comments on Bryan's paper

  Ref: http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/ogsa-wg/2004/08/msg00055.html

  - Rather than Grid community retooling the problem is for WS
    community retooling.

  - Can 'fake' it by just mapping what the clients think are urls (so
    that the clients are not aware of changes)
    - The big problem is not the client-side but getting buy-in to
      make this functionality part of the software infrastructure.

* Is there a standard that meets the requirements?

  - No

* Next steps:
  
  1. Andrew to re-draft doc 
     - Merging some of Bryan's stuff where appropriate
     - Keep within OGSA for now or seek broader audience?
       - Consensus to do another draft, making a more compelling case
         before going wider
         - (Bryan is involved in WSDM/WSRF so there is some input from
           other groups already)
       - WSDM identified some required pieces. E.g., identity. 
         - But not trying to solve the entire problem.
       - If solution is WSRF based then it could be picked up by WSDM
         too since they are WSRF/WS-Addressing currently based

     - In the next version get people to comment whether each property
       is required or desirable, etc.
        
  2. Andrew to consult with Hiro and Dave Snelling (WSRF co-chair) on
     next steps
     - Talk to Dave about the state of the RR spec.
     - Also thinking of creating an 'ogsa-naming' mailing list;
       possibly other timeslot for future calls.

  3. Do a review of name schemes and how far they address requirements
     detailed in the paper.

  [And at a later point:]
  4. Go to standards bodies, possibly first talking to major vendors
     - Andrew has some contacts:
       - IBM: Steve Graham, Jeff Frey 
       - MS: .Net group
     - WSRF in OASIS: 
       - One deliverable is RR. Could submit the naming proposal to
         that group
       - Of course this still does not get buy in from major companies
         not involved in WSRF (e.g., MS)