DAIS Telcon 27/05/04
====================

Chair:   Dave Pearson
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Dave Berry, NeSC
	Susan Malaika, IBM
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	Simon Laws, IBM
	Brian Collins, IBM
	Dave Pearson, Oracle

 Agenda:

     Actions from the previous telcon
     Planning for GGF11
     AoB
       - Specwriters and GGF12 dates
       - Full f2f meeting

Dead Actions
------------

[Norman] The deliverable in the charter will mention what we intend 
         to do with composite request framework task.

	 Deliverables have taken out of the charter and the
	 charter document has been sent to the area directors.
	 Would be more appropriate to add something back in
	 as opposed to take it out. No deliverables on
	 object databases or composite requests on the
	 charter.

	 Dave has not heard back from Malcolm or Greg.

[Simon] Document the DAIS folks that are liaising with other GGF WGs.

        Brian has extended his slide set. Brian will present this
        in Hawaii. It should be extended in the future as the need
	arises.
----


o Planning for GGF11

Dave Pearson starts discussing the DAIS sessions that are to take
place at GGF11.

      session 1 - June 7th, 4pm-5:30 Grid Data Service Specification update.
                           Norman has produced some slides for this.

This clashes with the Grid Storage Management session. We may want
to have someone representing us there.

      session 2 - June 8th at 12:30-2pm - Realisation Specifications
                  Brian doing the relational and Amy doing the XML.

Brian has already produced some slides for this. This session clashes
with WSRF-WSN and WSRF interop session.

Dave B: imagine that that the interop session is comparing WSRF
        implementations...

Susan: In WSRF-WSN summaries of what is happening in OASIS will be
       given. Someone from DAIS should be there. One of us could
       pop-out...

      session 3 -  June 8th, 430-5:30 - DAIS specs and related specs.
	           This will be between Allen and Brian.

Norman: Allen is aware of this session ... the purpose is not to go
        over the Data Services document but rather discuss how we move
        this document forward in relation with the other DAIS specs
        and make sure that an updated version of this document is
        produced for GGF12 based on the feedback we get from this
        sessions...

Susan: Allen will be attending...

Norman: Allen and I have interacted on this. Will have an update at
        the session. Will also have a heads up on the object database
        work that has been going on and invite interested parties to
        join in on this effort.

Dave: 

This session clashes with High Performance Networking, ... other
sessions listed and a brief discussion was had on clashes, most
notably the CMM session.

Susan: CIM tutorial also clashes with the OGSA-DAI tutorial on the
       Thursday.
    
Dave:

	session 4 - June 9th 10-11:30 am, Mapping discussion.

Simon: Savas is producing slides based on the diagrams from the
       document, Savas can talk and there will be a panel with Savas,
       Sastry and A.N.Other ... have not found that other person
       yet....

Norman: what about Susan?

Susan: could probably come up with something ... have been discussing
       things in the OASIS mailing list ... could probably say
       something.

Norman: we really want a WSRF person ... and Susan has been involved
        in WSRF and is aware of the data issues ...

Simon: ... still want to see whether Steve Tuecke and/or Dave Snelling
       are available ... or for them to volunteer someone ... not sure
       if they are available.

Dave: ... but I still think that Susan should go as she is aware of
      the data issues ... the downside is that we have another session
      of interest with which this clashes which is the files BOF ....

Brian: have sent an email to Stacy Bruno... they are unwilling to
       change the schedule.  I was wondering whether we could
       something nearer the time ...

Dave: the nearer the time the more difficult it will be ...

Norman: ... however we managed to sort this out with regards to the
        Infod BOF at GGF10 ... would like to have a decent number of
        people present at the Files BOF ... this is a bit of a concern
        ...

Susan: is there a better spot?

Brian: have found about 3 which I sent to Stacey ... Neil was going to
       send out invites next week ...

Dave: I am happy to send an email about trying to reschedule ... will
      cc it to David and Peter ... make sure that we publicise the
      other sessions ... people could still go and register an
      interest at the end of the DAIS session.  This last DAIS session
      also clashes with the semantic grid which is unfortunate.

Dave: other sessions?

Dave B: Malcolm is one of the speakers in a panel session on June 7,
        2pm (EXPLORING OPPORTUNITIES IN THE OGSA SERVICE MODEL... how
        ogsa services will benefit applications ... Malcolm will talk
        about Data and Data Service ... would encourage people to go
        to this ...

Dave: this clashes with the DAFDL WG ...

Susan: CGS and transaction management ... there are two sessions. The
       first is on a charter discussion and the second is on June 9th
       ... the CGS session 2 is on wed at 8 and session 1 is on the
       7th June 6-6:30... would welcome attendance and there is also a
       tutorial ... looking for people to register ... all the
       tutorials on Thursday have a low registration ... infod is on
       Tues just after the WSRF session is at 2pm on June 8th
       .. straight after a DAIS session. There is a data area meeting
       ... on June the 7th that we should go to ...  ...

Dave: I'll put a list together of the sessions of interest to the DAIS
      folks that they might consider going to and mail it to the list
      ... do we need to meet with anyone in particular? ... to develop
      relationships ...

Susan: might be good for the DAIS people to meet together..

Norman: there's a slot on June the 9th to have lunch...

Dave: could meet with the CGS people ....

Susan: are you not going to go to the meeting ...?

Dave: it's just that have emails in my mailbox suggesting meetings.

Susan: the calls have been patchy and only allowed 3 people ...

Dave: lunchtime on the 9th then?

Brian: might be good to get all the DAIS people to meet all ...
       Sunday brunch?

...

Dave: I'll send everyone an email with these details...

Some discussion of people's travel plans ensued.

Discussion as to whether the mappings document has been publicised
outside DAIS.

o AoB

   - Specwriters and GGF12 dates

Brian: saw an email for the dates for GGF12 ... the early date came
       as a bit of a shock...

Susan: think they are trying to make it coincide with OASIS...

Brian: if you take the document deadline will probably be on the 6th
       of September which clashes with the UK All Hands Meeting and
       there is also the summer holidays where it might be difficult
       to get a quorate to meet ... could have a f2f at the all hand's
       meeting?

Norman: if we met on the same week  then there would be no time ..

Dave: would probably need a meeting in late July...

Susan: there is an OASIS f2f in the UK at the end of July ... would
       make sense to coordinate ... there's also Dave Berry's f2f.

Norman: may be difficult to synchronize this just now ... we have
	Dave's dates in the ogsa mailing list ... went out on the
	21st of May ... maybe we should try to do something
	adjacent ...

Susan: is this a DAIS f2f or a spec writer's f2f?

Norman: it may be a DAIS f2f ... we hope that the specs are going to
        move forward more incrementally from here onwards ... this
        means that in a certain sense we may move the specs in
        response to feedback so that from now to GGF12 we could try to
        get the OGSA Data Services spec document in line...

Brian: it would be good to have the OGSA Data Services and then a DAIS
       f2f and then a spec writer's meeting ...

Norman: might be a big chunk ... but people could pick and choose

Susan: OASIS meeting is the last week in July ...

Norman: these do not coincide with the dates that Dave sent out ...

Dave: a good way to sort this out might be to sort this out at GGF11 ...

Brian: something to talk about at brunch ...

Dave: it also involves other people but we could certainly try to come
      up with a set of suitable dates ... can decide whether we will
      need one meeting or several others ....

   - Full f2f meeting

Already covered.

Simon: previously discussed the use of Grid Forge to note ... should
       try to capture issues that arise at GGF11 in a systematic
       fashion. Should use Grid Forge...

Norman: one of the other things we thought we would do is to try and
        get some XML database vendors involved in the process ... do
        people have contacts that we could use with XML database
        vendors?

Susan: someone to give input into the specs?

Norman: yes and possibly become involved int he writing of the specs
        ...

Susan: could get the people at the next XQuery call to publicise this.

...


