DAIS Telcon Minutes - 02/03/05
==============================

Chair: Dave Pearson
Note taker: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
-------
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Dave Berry, NeSC
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	Thomas Soddemann, RZG Munich
	Amy Krause, EPCC

Agenda:

   Issues arising from  OGSA face-to-face
   Feedback on DAIS specs submitted for GGF13

Actions
-------

[Dave] Pick out OGSA sessions of interest to DAIS at GGF 13 and ask
       for DAIS volunteer to capture any issues of relevance to DAIS.

[Dave] Invite individuals to the second DAIS session that might have a
       view relating to what the relationship between a WS-Resource
       and the underlying resource should be.

----

o Issues arising from  OGSA face-to-face

Dave Pearson asked whether any issues came out of the OGSA
face-to-face that might impact on DAIS.

Dave Berry: what should go on the WS-Basic Profile was discussed. A
proposal for WS-Naming has gone out. Trying to keep all the main
players happy. Possibly associate a URI for the name or add an end
point to resolve the name. Not much has been decided about the form of
the URI as yet. There was not much that affected DAIS per se. The data
profile was not really discussed.

From this Dave Pearson concluded that nothing major came out of this
meeting that has an immediate impact on DAIS. Fitting in with existing
name spaces is a good thing.

o Feedback on DAIS specs submitted for GGF13

Have not had any feedback on the specs submitted to GGF13 as yet. Have
been thinking about the model and general tidying up. Hopefully there
will be some feedback after GGF. Will probably not do a document
refresh before GGF.

Thomas Soddemann: on the object realisation - William Sanchez has said
he is interested and has presented some material. Hope to put
something together. Have been busy and not had much time to look at
this. Would like to present a draft before GGF14, possibly by the
third week of May.

AOB
---

Globus funding was briefly discussed.

WS-Enumeration - has it got an impact on DAIS?  

This was examined when the spec first appeared. Did overlap with some
information provided by the relational realisation. At that time the
spec may have been propriotory - not sure what the current status
is. Our initial thought was that the DAIS specs provide loose coupling
between the data service and the services that manages your result. It
would be straightforward to make the results available through a
WS-Enumeration type interface method. This could be tidied up by a
profile. However, have not looked at a recent copy of of this spec.

---

