DAIS Telcon 22/04/04
====================

Chair: Norman Paton/Dave Pearson
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Simon Laws, IBM
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	Vijay Dialany, Southampton University
	Susan Malaika, IBM

 Agenda:

     Actions from the previous telcon
     Composite Requests (Dave Pearson/Greg Riccardi)
     AoB

New Actions:
------------

[Dave] Email Greg and Malcolm to determine a time when they might be
       able to join a telcon in order to see how to take the composite
       request framework forward.

Actions Resulting from previous Meetings:
-----------------------------------------

[Simon] Ensure that DAIS liaises with other GGF WGs in a systematic
        fashion. (Identify persons that are interacting with other GGF
        groups and document this).

Dead Actions
------------

[Dave] To type up names of folks that said were interested in files at GGF9 
       and pass these on to Neil.

       Done shortly after the meeting.
----

Outstanding actions were reviewed.

Dave produced some slides demonstrating patterns about composite
requests. 

Slides can be found at:

http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/DAIS-WG-Topic-Composite-Requests/en/1.

...

Presentation followed the slides fairly closely.

Mario: do composite requests affect one service or multiple services?

Dave: Assumed that you could compose a service that would handle this
      kind of request ...

Norman: an argument for not encompassing multiple services is that
        there are already mechanisms for doing this - e.g. workflow -
        if composite requests are to be in the DAIS scope it should
        not have any aspect of orchestration.


Dave: I was thinking in terms of a single service.

Norman: have a diagram which has inputs, outputs and transformations
        go into a data service ... you have to add value over that
        provided by the mechanisms to group sequence of requests
        already supported by a data resource, e.g. SQL 99 ... the next
        step up, in a service context, is that you might want to do
        the things that Dave describes, and be able to pull in data,
        perform transformations and ship data out. That is the kind of
        thing that you would like to do.

...

Mario: is what you describe not in the infod territory?


Norman: No, infod is publish subscribe while this is still in the
        request-response model. Characterise request-response as being
        in the DAIS territory.

Susan: We should publish a precise definition as the infod working
       group might have a different view.

Dave: ... we would see infod as being higher-level than what we 
      are trying to do.

...

Susan: everyone might not agree with this difference.

Vijay: Dave do you consider staging of requests?

Dave: have assumed that you submit a batch of requests then ...

Vijay: what I meant is that if you place a request on the service then
      someone else can fire off that request and get the data back
      ... something that you might want to do as an administrator...

Dave: I see this as one of the advantages of composite requests.

Vijay: another thing about transactional context being all or nothing
       ....

Dave: certainly for the administrative domain do not need acid
      transactions but for bulk loads you might want to have a
      transactional context...

Vijay: can we make a statement that all the local requests can be
       involved in a transactional context ...

Dave: you have to be clear of the conditions

Vijay: for local transactions we should assume transactions that the
       local data resources may or may not support the given types of
       transaction ...

Dave: yep that would be a good approach ... once you get into a batched
      requests then you have to ...

Vijay: ... we have to be clear that this only allows localised transactions.

Dave: I think that is a very important point Vijay.

...

Discussion about what constitutes a logical unit of work and Dave 
proceeded to go through the slides.

Discussed patterns - Jim Gray's work with the astronomy examples.

In writing these examples out it has become apparent that there are
different ways of defining the levels of units of work and how you
define these might be application driven.

Dave concludes his presentation.

Norman: Dave has provided a characterisation of different patterns for
        levels of work ... there are two proposals on the DAIS table
        dealing with composite requests: Greg's and the one provided
        by ogsa-dai. We would like to get interested folks to come up
        with a community practice document for some future GGF. These
        slides could be used to validate such a piece of work
        ... maybe what we do with this just now is note the proposal
        and when people come forward to take work on composite request
        forward they could use these slides.... Dave are you
        interested in working on such a proposal or is this what you
        would like to see included in any further work on composite
        requests?

Dave: this could be fed into the use cases that Dave Berry has been
       putting together for their ogsa data service (architecture)
       work.

Norman: what do we do next? ... the people that are holding the token
        here are Greg and Malcolm ... need to get them to come on a
        telcon and get them to propose how this can be moved
        forward. Is there anything else that we can do?

Dave: all we can do is tell the folks at GGF what has been going on in
      this area ... and try to encourage participation ... there is
      nothing here that could not be done at the orchestration
      level. It's a question about the granularity of service that
      people want to define.

Norman: this is another set of useful scenarios for composite requests


Dave takes an action to email Greg and Malcolm to try to find a slot
as to when they might be able to join a telcon and try to get a
proposal on how to progress otherwise we will not be able to include
this in our future GGF charter.

At the moment there is a demand but not enough supply.

AOB
---

Norman: DMTF - Susan - attempts to set up a telcon ... Larry has been
        silent ...

Susan: it appears that it's going to be difficult to get both of us on
        a call ... maybe we might be able to just have one of us?
        ... need to try make sure that Tod is on the call (chair from
        oracle on the data area working group). ...  I'll bug them.

Norman: it will not bother me if I can't turn up to a call.

Norman: Simon - there was discussion about batting out the slides
        about the mappings ... any progress ...

Mario comments that the slides presented at GGF9 have been up on Grid
forge for a while (shortly after ggf9) and that he recollects that it 
was the document they were working on and not the slides.

Simon: we hope to distribute a copy of the document by the end of next
       week ...

Norman: has there been any progress on the specs?

Simon: have written half of the words on the core spec, Mario is
       massaging the words ... have been doing the WSDL at the
       moment. The XML spec is awaiting the WSDL and the core
       specs. We can get Amy to catch up on this once this is done
       ... have almost finished the WSDL.

Norman: I may be able to look at some stuff over the weekend of the
        first of May.

Simon: our goal was to have a draft of the docs ready by the end of
       next week.

Mario: ... my contribution to the core spec at the moment has tended
       to produce more question than contributed text ...

...

Simon: I'll bat the WSDL to you mario soon to comment...

Mario: what about the relational spec?

Simon: that is Susan/Brian ... presently producing an example based on
       the relational spec ... have not produced any words yet. Brian
       is worrying about various bits and pieces.

...

Norman: I'm comforted ...

Susan: going to be attending the OASIS WSRF meetings next week - let
       me know if you have any questions ... OASIS have all day
       meetings .. a whole day on wsrf and a whole day on
       ws-notification ... most of the OASIS activities run in
       parallel.

Mario: is the WSDL WSRF based?

Simon: yes, I'm doing the WSRF mapping.

Vijay: do you know when the infod people meet?

Susan: there is a telcon tomorrow ... we are reviewing the charter and
       a couple other things ... it was posted to the dais and the
       infod mailing list .. did you not get it?

Vijay: do not recall?

various other people commented that they had received the message
about the infod telcon (Simon forwards the infod telcon announcement
to Vijay).

Susan: ogsa - dave berry's group - has an extended call next friday
       and are going to try and have an e-meeting and they are going
       to work through scenarios and use an electronic white board
       ... want to prepare the infod people to contribute to that
       effort.

Mario comments that Greg had posted an emails asking about the telcon
number but as he was taking minutes he did not see it.

Dave will post a reminder about the telcon numbers.

Susan comments that Larry Flon had posted a message about a DMTF/CMM
telcon.


