
DAIS Minutes (23 November 2004)
-------------------------------

Present: Simon Laws, Susan Malaika, Allen Lunievski, Shannon Hastings,
Norman Paton

1. Reviewing Known Issues
-------------------------

WS-DAI:

Issue #977: Neet to clarify property values and semantics for 
disconnected data sets.  Need to identify some scenarios that explore 
the semantics. 

Required Action: Develop and post some scenarios onto GridForge; review 
at telcon.  An example scenario is where there is a sensitive derived 
data resource and the parant data resource is destroyed. 

Action: Norman and Simon to develop some scenarios and discuss.

Issue #1099: Naming. The WSRF embodiment paper describes different 
mechanisms for using existing names as part of resource identifiers 
(e.g. embodiment 3.4 removes the requirement for opaque names).  These 
may to some extent cut across the layers of the draft OGSA naming 
scheme.  DAIS probably should continue to assume that resource identify 
is separate from the message, in the hope that the feedback into the 
WSRF specifications makes them acceptable to a wider community.

Action: Simon has posted a relevant message on the list; to be discussed.

Issue #1103: Top Level Operation.

Required Action: Make a concrete proposal and post to list. 

Action: Mario to make a proposal or inform Norman.

WS-DAIR:

Open issues left in the WS-DAIR specification mostly relate to the 
relationship with WS-DAI.

Action:
- Simon and Susan to discuss, recording relevant issues on GridForge.
- Susan to make a pass through the specification to identify any further 
issues.

WS-DAIX:

Issue #476: The XML document is inconsistent about naming of the factory 
portTypes.

Action: Shannon to interact with Amy and fix the document.

Issue 1085: Support for XUpdate. Possible approaches - could make it 
optional.  could also consider this as a case study for top-level operation.

Action: Shannon to propose a way forward on GridForge, and flag to list.

Issue 1086: XMLCollectionAccess::AddSchema - should this be present.  
Could make this optional.

Action: Shannon to post a proposal on optionality, for consultation.

Additional issue: WS-DAIX WSDL is not consistent with WS-DAI WSDL.

Action: Simon to add issue to GridForge and discuss with Amy.

Overall Action: Norman to assume mid-Jan telcon date to review spec 
issues again.

2. Data Design Team Update
--------------------------

- Metadata framework coming along.
- Little progress on straw man architecture.
- Ongoing work on file architecture.

3. Socialising
--------------

Dave has been travelling a lot, but has promised to update the document 
by the next call.  There will be discussions within the EGA about 
systematic reviewing of GGF specifications; it is hoped that DAIS will 
be looked at early.

Next Call: 7th December

Minutes: Norman Paton

