DAIS Telcon 13/07/04
====================

Chair  : Norman Paton
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	Simon Laws, IBM
	Vijay Dialany, University of Southampton
	Susan Malaika, IBM

Agenda:

1. Minutes/Actions.
2. Discussion of Briefing Document on "socialising" the specifications
   (Dave Pearson).
3. Update on issue logging for specifications (Mario Antonioletti).
4. Update on process for finalising mapping scenarios document
   (Simon Laws).
5. Update on process for addressing mapping issues for specifications
   (Simon Laws).
6. Discussion on possible meeting on 26th July, in association with WSRF
   meeting (Norman Paton).
7. DAIS/File Access Group Interactions (Brian Collins)
8. AOB


New Actions:

[Mario] Mail list stating that process for resolving trackers outlined in
        previous mailing is the one to be used in future.

Actions from previous meeting:

[Dave]   Post a straw man executive summary and set of questions before
         the next call for people to comment on.

Done.

[Mario]  Post a summary of existing DAIS issues to the list and let folks
         know that the Grid Forge trackers are being used for this.

Done.

[Mario]  Propose a process for closing issues that are posted on Grid
         Forge. Check out what other GGF groups are doing in this space.
         To be done by the next call.

Done.

[Norman] Email the people involved in the Object Data Access
         Realisation to see if this effort can be picked up again.

On-going.
----

1. Minutes/Actions.

2. Discussion of Briefing Document on "socialising" the specifications
   (Dave Pearson).

Dave not present so this item was not discussed.

3. Update on issue logging for specifications (Mario Antonioletti).

Mario: Put out a mail with a list of existing trackers and artifacts.
       Suggested a process for resolving artifacts (issues).

Norman suggest that Mario should mail the list stating that this is
going to be the process for resolving issues.

4. Update on process for finalising mapping scenarios document
(Simon Laws).

There is a call on the 27th of July. Will try to close down the
mappings document. No particular progress but moving forward.
Sastry, one of the authors, will be leaving Oracle so that's an
incentive for this to be resolved soon.

5. Update on process for addressing mapping issues for specifications
(Simon Laws).

Norman: discussion of the singleton resource pattern going on in
        the WSRF mailing list after Susan posted a mailing there.

Simon: ... there is a disagreement about the model to be used to
       identify resources.

*Susan joins*

Norman asks Susan to comment

Susan: it's still under discussion. 

Simon: ... singleton resource pattern would allow a web services and
       WSRF based framework to be used ...

Susan: you are still supposed to have reference properties ...

Simon: you don't need reference properties if you have only one
       resource.  According to WSRF people you still have an EPR
       ... the model works in both situations but that does not answer
       the skeptics that believe that resources should not be
       modelled.

Norman: ... RESTful is a distraction as you encode the resource in the
        URL ...
...

Simon: encoding the resource properties in the URL is seen as a bad
       thing as that is protocol specific ...

Susan: in DAIS we name the database, the table, it's part of the
       resource - all these things have established names and access
       mechanisms ... you think that someone will be against that
       ... who would argue against it?

Simon: if things are already identified what is the objective of WSRF?
       We had this conversation a long time ago that it's all about
       identity ... we had an OGSA-DAI Technical Review Board where
       Malcolm Atkinson pointed us to the OGSA document that has
       something about naming which is very useful ... it splits the
       naming problem down into three things without being specific to
       the mapping - the three things are a human readable name, an
       abstract name - unique for all time and an address ... you can
       map between those three things ... this is a useful framework
       to use ... also they gave examples in the document ... someone
       has thought what this means in WSRF and in other things ... we
       should think about that ourselves.

Norman: section 3.9.4.1 on page 54 or the OGSA document ... this seems
        to be a very specific use of a WSRF EPR ... you can pass
        something that is not physical at all ...

Susan: yes

Simon: that EPR with no renewable reference part identifies a
       particular resource.

Norman: Could see how I could go to a service ... pass an EPR, the
        service could unpack that ... it could be location transparent
        but the person that uses that EPR cannot tell...

Simon: some will think that this is a great way of building
       distributed databases or you could use it to hide stuff
       ... some people talk about bank account ids and other about
       disks which are at opposite end of the spectrum ... we can use
       the OGSA framework.

Norman: has the renewable resource document been published?

Simon: no.

Norman: trying to find a mode of operation that makes most people make
        comfortable or be able to factor it in if people require it
        ...

Susan: will do some more probing ..

Norman: look forward to this ...

Susan: what should we ask next?

Simon: what happens if I already have an id?

Norman: could use the scenarios ... have two scenarios ... where the
        database is the data resource or where the result is treated
        as a data resource ... we could make that community look at
        our scenarios ... when the database is our resource you have 3
        options: a service fronts one database in which case you don't
        want to be bothered with a WSRF construct if you only have one
        resource, the second possibility is that you have a naming
        scheme that is understood by the underlying management system
        that understands this, e.g. Oracle has a global naming scheme
        for databases, and you could use that ... and the final
        possibility is that you do have WSRF. The last two examples
        have multiple resources ... we would like to be able to use
        option 1 - our desire is to allow options 1 and 3 to co-exist
        in the spec ... or there is no WSRF issue for option 2 or it's
        ruled out of bounds ... it could become a 2 step process
        .. look up that name in a registry and get an EPR and then
        address the service through the EPR ... could get a level of
        indirection ... could be a good thing ...

Susan: ruling out option 2 rules out a lot of web services ...

Simon: number 2 is not just a database thing ...

Susan: sure but we want them to look at the scenarios ...

Simon: WSRF people will say in option 1 you have an EPR, in option 2
       you map it to an EPR and option 3 is an EPR.

Norman: but there are different views on this ... the question is
        though how do we make 1 a sub-option for 3 ...

Simon: but WS-Addressing was not written for WSRF, WSRF was written to
       use WS-Addressing ... if you are using a URL then clearly it's
       not an EPR but you could also use that as an EPR then the
       consumer can't tell if a WSRF EPR or a standard WS EPR...

Norman: as a client this is a good thing but the service provider
        might get grumpy about naming its internal resources ... want
        to achieve the client not to know these things.

Susan: how can it see if it can get reference properties?

Simon: can look at the WSDL and see if the methods are supported or
       send a message and if faults ...

...

Susan: talk a little about the result set one ... when you have a
       result set you do not have the luxury of a global name
       ... unless we invented one.

Simon: there is a space in the metadata for it ...

Susan: it's a matter of implementation ... you could use a temporary
       table.

Norman: if you created a temporary table and imported the name the
        management of that table would be managed by the underlying
        resource whereas if it's managed by the service it's a first
        class citizen in the service space and a 2nd class name in the
        resource space

Susan: have been talking about this today ... bit of resource that is
       tightly coupled to the service ... WSRF is ideal

Norman: it makes it a first class citizen of the service ... 

6. Discussion on possible meeting on 26th July, in association with WSRF
   meeting (Norman Paton).

Norman: Meeting on the 26th supposed to tie with the WSRF face-to-face
        taking place in London.

Susan: There are two Oracle people attending the WSRF meeting but they
       are not DAIS ... they are from the application server group but
       they should be ok about this ... the WSRF is all day on the
       27th ... one of them is flying in for the Monday and the other
       is coming in on the Tuesday ...

Norman: so there is a possibility on the Monday ...

Susan: but I will not be able to attend in the afternoon ...

Norman: could meet up with Simon and meet up and discuss the scenarios
        ... we should be able to have a useful discussion with someone
        from an AP Server ... could also possibly meet post the WSRF
        meeting but I will not be able to attend.

Susan: what about a meeting after the WSRF days ...

* general discussion trying to pin down a time to meet *

7. DAIS/File Access Group Interactions (Brian Collins)

Could not do as neither Neil nor Brian were not on the call.

8. AOB

Susan: CGS model stuff is proceeding nicely. Being vetted by the IBM
        SQL standards people.

Norman: there is a question whether the spec team should try to meet
        at some point. May be able to suggest a suitable time next
        week.

Mario: Status of charter?

Norman: area chairs have been sent the updated charter but have not
        had a reply.

---


