DAIS-WG Telcon - Monday 11th December 2006
------------------------------------------

Chair:     Dave Pearson
Note taker: Mario Antonioletti

Attendees:
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Isao Kojima, AIST
	Said Mirza Pahlevi, AIST
	Asunción Gómez Pérez, UPM
	Miguel Esteban Gutiérrez, UPM

Agenda
------

  - Progress update
  - Discussion on RDF strawman specification
  - AOB

Actions:

[DP] Let Dave de Roure to know that the RDF docs are coming out and
     get him to publicise them at the W3C.

[DP] Try to get Oracle folks to look at the RDF documents and comment
     on these too.

[All] Notify DP of any other people that might be interested in
      reviewing these documents or have a general interest in this
      area.

[DP] Send a reminder to key people about MEG's query sent to the DAIS
     mailing list.

+---

DP asked for progress reports about the RDF straw-man documents and
whether there have any issues.

MEG: At UPM:

o Have identified one additional type of resource not described at the
  last OGF meeting - the selector, for a resource on top of other
  repositories - provides a means of going from the selector to a
  specific repository.

o Have reviewed the methods - have looked at ODM from the OMG as a
  possible means of doing this.

o Having some issues with properties - for controlling the resources,
  e.g. check the validity of the arguments, have to check that
  resources actually exist - RDF does not provide any mechanism for
  this. Want to be able to enable/disable reasoning - may want/not
  want to check the hierarchies. Want to this at the resource level
  and not at the message level.

o Sent an email to the DAIS mailing list about inconsistencies in the
  WS-DAI core and WS-DAIR specs which no one has answered yet:

 http://www.ogf.org/pipermail/dais-wg/2006-November/000178.html

Planned to deliver our spec on the 15/12 but will probably have to
wait until the 22 or 29 of December now through work
constraints. Currently using html to generate the document - at some
later point will convert to word.

DP: think it's ok for now but the final version should probably be in word 
    format.

...

    Has the number of operations/complexity been reduced from what was
    presented at Washington?

MEG: Have found a way of reducing the number of operations/messages. Have
     been working on this.

DP: Dave de Roure has expressed interest in this work and could look
    at it and publicise within W3C once the document goes public. DP
    could also publicise this document with folks inside Oracle.

...

    DP asks IK for an update.

IK: currently have a document without WSDL - may be able to distribute
    this document by the 22/12. This will have the WSDL in it.

SMP: have not had any major issues with progress.

MAA: asks about consistency between the two documents.

MEG: have not considered consistency issues.
     Will try to do this now.
     Try to write a document with a common model and terminology.

DP: suggests that they can have a list of outstanding issues at the
    end of the documents and this can be one of them and use it as a
    means of inviting comment on the documents.

...

    At the end of December we can get two documents posted to the list,
    then try to get as much feedback as possible


    Folks should let DP know of other people that may be interested in
    reviewing these documents.

    DP asked if anyone has wanted to join in writing the specs.

MEG: no. Have not really publicised this work.

IK: no, have not had much interest either.

DP: hopefully you will get more collaboration once the documents go
    public.  Would be helpful also to indicate who might be interested
    in using an RDF spec.

    Shall see what happens at OGF19.
    MEG will be at OGF, IK and SMP will be going.
    MAA may be going.
    DP cannot confirm whether he will be attending yet.

    We have a DAIS session booked for OGF.

    DP wants to know whether we want the 45 minute session to be
    extended to 90 minutes. Most of the 45 minutes could be used for
    RDF, so the consensus is that this should be enough - no need to
    change the timing.

    Next telcon is agreed for 1pm GMT on the 16th of January.

AOB: 

DP: there has been a request from the DMTF (Ellen Stokes) to review
some document based on input from DAIS gave for the CIM model. It
would be good for people to look at these and comment.

o URI Format for DMTF Published XML Schema
  http://www.dmtf.org/standards/published_documents/DSP0225.pdf

o CIM Binding
  http://www.dmtf.org/standards/published_documents/DSP0227.pdf

o WS-CIM Mapping Specification
  http://www.dmtf.org/standards/published_documents/DSP0230.pdf

There is likely to be a telcon on the 11th of January to discuss
these.

DP thanks people for attending the telcon and for the effort put in 
producing the documents.

DONM: 1pm GMT, 16th of January. 
