DAIS-WG Telcon - Tuesday 19th February 2007
-------------------------------------------

Chair     : Dave Pearson
Note taker: Mario Antonioletti

Attendees:
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Isao Kojima, AIST
	Said Mirza Pahlevi, AIST

Agenda
------

  - Progress 
  - Feedback
  - Scenarios
  - Recruiting additional participants
  - AOB

Actions:

New Actions
-----------

[MAA] Ask Miguel if he is going to attend the DIALOGUE Meeting for a 
      face-to-face meeting with the AIST folks.

[Miguel, Isao, Mirza] come up with a list of inconsistencies in terminology
                      across the RDF specs.

[Pearson] Get Miguel to nominate someone to talk at OGF20 about the
          RDF(S) Ontology Access work.

Completed Actions
-----------------

[DP] Propose a telcon to raise awareness of this work about 2 weeks
     after OGF19 where a number of external parties are invited.

      Done.

[All] Promote DAIS session to OGF19 attendees
     
      Done.

+---


o OGF19

  Had about 12 people at the session. 
  Some new faces, some old faces.
  Did not get much engagement from the session.

  Ohio folks said they were going to implement the DAIX specs.

o Progress of specifications

  Miguel could not attend this call but sent an update of the RDF(S)
  Ontology Access work:

  http://www.ogf.org/pipermail/dais-wg/2007-February/000193.html

  AIST have been updating their RDF specification but have not put up
  a new version of their document on Grid Forge - hope to do this
  within two weeks.

o Feedback

  No feedback.

o Scenarios

  AIST plan extend the schema in their document.  Looking at another
  scenario using resource discovery with MDS.  Hope to draw people in
  through this to explore their specification.

  Someone joined the DAIS group (student in China) interested in the
  semantic work to whom Dave replied and cc'ed the others - Dave
  wondered whether that person had been in contact. Dave will look
  to see if he can find the email again and forward to folks again.

o Recruiting additional participants

  
  AIST hoped to use the DIALOGUE meeting as a small face-to-face
  meeting but Miguel was not sure whether he would be able to attend.
  Mario to find out.

  Once the documents have been updated with Scenario Dave Pearson will
  ask Dave de Roure to bring this up at W3C. Should complete the
  documents and ask Dave de Roure to circulate in W3C: e.g., these
  docs have been developed in DAIS ... and then ask specific questions
  as to whether this is of interest to W3C? Does W3C want to
  participate? Can they provide scenarios ... use this to try to gauge
  the level of support ....

  However, before doing this it would be quite important to align the
  terminology across both documents - folks were hoping to look at
  this a the DIALOGUE meeting.

  There is no list of the differences in the terminologies as yet -
  need to do this. AIST will try to do this. Wait to get W3C involved
  after terminology differences have been reconciled - this will
  happen after the DIALOGUE meeting.

o AOB

  OGF20 scheduling - Dave Pearson will put a request for a single 90
  minute session.  There should be a large European attendance so we
  could try to get engagement from these.  Need to ask Miguel, who
  will not be present, as to who could present on his behalf.

+---

DONM: At some point in mid-March.

