Minutes by: Dave Pearson <Dave.Pearson@oracle.com>

Attendees NP, DP, SL

Data Area Workshop at GGF10

DP will provide DAIS feedback on the Gap Analysis paper at the workshop.
SM will be asked to make the latest version of the document available to
everyone in the DAIS working group. People should then send feedback and
comments to DP.

GGF10 Sessions

NP has received a request to revise the sessions proposed for GGF10. He
will propose a schedule based on mapping session content to session
slots to line up with likely attendance.

Semantics

NP and SL will hold a telcon for next week to progress thinking on
semantics.

Conceptual Mapping

A number of use cases have been agreed and a telcon between Savas, Simon
and Sastry is scheduled for next week.


OASIS XDI Group

OASIS has established a technical committee (XDI) to define a
generalized, extensible, location-, application-, and
transport-independent service for sharing,  linking, and synchronizing
data over the Internet and other data networks using XML documents and
XRIs (Extensible Resource Identifiers), a URI-compatible abstract
identifier scheme defined by the OASIS XRI Technical Committee. With
XDI, data from any data source can be identified, described, linked, and
synchronized into an active, machine-readable "dataweb" just as content
from any content source can be identified and linked into the
human-readable Web today.

The area chairs have asked DAIS to assess its relevance to DAIS and to
decide if specific liaison should be set up with the TC.


Data management

There was some discussion on how data management might be included in
the GGF10 sessions. Brain Collins has recently posted to the DAIS list
on this topic and will be asked to provide some slides on data
management for the session on semantics.

Next Telcon is scheduled for 4th March


Dave Pearson

co-chair

