DAIS Telcon 22/04/04
====================

Chair: Dave Pearson
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Vijay Dialany, Southampton University
	Simon Laws, IBM
	Thomas Soddemann, RZG
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Dave Berry, NeSC
	Amy Krause, EPCC
	Brian Collins, IBM
	Allen Luniewski, IBM

 Agenda:

     Actions from the previous telcon
     OGSA Data Services Document (Allen Luniewski)
     Object Database Access Services (Thomas Soddemann)
     OGSA Data Architecture as it affects DAIS (Dave Berry)
     AoB

New Actions:
------------


Actions Resulting from previous Meetings:
-----------------------------------------

[Dave] Email Greg and Malcolm to determine a time when they might be
       able to join a telcon in order to see how to take the composite
       request framework forward.

       Have sent an email - have not had a reply yet.

[Simon] Document the DAIS folks that are liaising with other GGF WGs.

	Document who is.

-----  

o OGSA Data Services Document (Allen Luniewski)

[ Dave = Dave Pearson, Dave B. = Dave Berry]

Dave gets Allen to lead the first part of the call.

Allen: thanks Norman for getting the Data Service work moving again.

Try to get issues that are outstanding on the document. 
Gathered issues from the last GGF that were noted.

  - The document was changed to use WSRF.
  - A question about end point references. The intent is to 
    EPRs to direct clients to the appropriate resources and
    this is not particularly well described.
  - A question about placement at the dropped services level - to
    get data and services at the right place.
  - A naming issue.
  - ?
  - A workflow - 3rd party delivery and how does it relate to
    infod and workflow.
  - Comments inlined in the document from Norman Paton and someone at IBM 
    called Mike Swanson.

Dave: has anyone got any more issues?

Mario mentions that grid forge might be used to track issues
with the ogsa data service document publicly although this 
has not been totally successful at tracking issues with 
DAIS documents in the past. 

Mario: has the doc changed since GGF10?

No.

Dave: wants to clarify the role of the management portType which is
      used to manage the virtualization but what is used to manage the
      underlying resource.

There has not been any further development on that although it has
been discussed in the past.

Simon: did the data description go in the last version of the document?

Norman: the previous version of the document had data description but
        in WSRF you do not require to have a separate portType to do
        data description ...

Allen: I did not see the need for an explicit portType for description.

Simon: should really consider these as categories and not portTypes ..
       the same thing applies to Factories.

Allen: that is right.

Simon: we might some things about data service factory but that is not
       necessarily an actual factory

Discussion about whether a factory is needed across portTypes but no
one has made a case for this yet.

Simon: issue relating to delivery, events and notifications which
       started the infod effort off ... is there any need to say
       anything specific about this in the data service document?
       ... we don't know if an extra layer need to be added on top of
       this....

Dave: you think there should be a statement about this?

Simon: we should think about this ... we had a previous discussion
       on triggers.

Norman: something relating to that ... aspects of the document could
        cause it to be interpreted as a pattern for all data services
        in a Grid a framework. If you then ask if it accommodates all
        types of data service you find that it does not. Take the
        infod group who were originally asked to go and determine where
        they belonged in this framework and they found that they did
        not ... it's not that this framework is not useful but rather
        that it does not encompass all types of data service. So, if
        we are in a context where the data service document is seen as
        providing the functionality and DAIS as providing the top
        level portTypes then that's fine but there are other data
        orientated services that others might wish to come up with
        that do not fit in this framework, e.g. data movement, data
        replication, etc and that should be discussed in the document
        ... so data orientated services might not fit in ... this is
        not made explicit in the document yet ... it might be
        worthwhile flagging this.

Allen: approach is that is good for certain things but not everything.

Norman: this should be made more explicit ... about WSRF ... you
        should stick with the WSRF orientation ... as a group we are
        focusing on WSRF and discussing other frameworks in the work
        being undertaken by Simon, Savas and Sastry - the
        infrastructure discussion will take place under this banner
        and stop the discussion being replicated at the various other
        sub groups .. I invite people to comment on this position.

Allen: I agree with that .... the Data Service document is not very
       reliant on using either OGSI or WSRF .... if these were to
       disappear most of the document would remain the same.

Dave: Allen is there anything else that you would like to raise?

Allen: will put the issues up on Grid Forge .... but then how do we
       resolve them. Not sure if we should use this call for this.

Norman: but you should bring issues to this meeting ... reason for
        bringing Allen into the call is to try to discuss what happens
        to the OGSA Data Service document ...  we need to think about
        mechanisms for resolving these issues ...  we can use Grid
        Forge, this telcon and the mailing list ... could also use a
        f2f and GGF to move things forward. ... feel free to use all
        of these mechanisms. ... Could also organise telcons in
        particular to discuss this document.

Allen: once I get these up on Grid Forge will send something out to
       the mailing list to try to begin the discussion.

o Object Database Access Services (Thomas Soddemann)

Thomas: had a telcon last week. There were only a few people there but
        nevertheless had an interesting discussion going . Norman put
        the minutes out to the list. Went through groups that need OO
        database access ....  the intelligence community came up which
        I had not thought of before.

        Objectivity has customers in the intelligence community with
        databases in the 12Pb region ... really big databases. Covered
        other work of relevance to this effort.  Covered some projects
        from where we could get ideas. Discussed query languages - the
        most appropriate query language might be JDO although this is
        possibly a bit Java specific but nevertheless was judged to be
        the best thing around that we know of.

        Have started to write some documents with some use cases which
        will discuss why OO database access might be useful. We will
        have another telcon in about 3 weeks which Norman will
        organise.

Norman: might be worthwhile to add that Leon could contribute several
        days a month and Thomas can add several days a week. Will try
        to get a draft recommendation for GGF12 and a draft
        recommendation for GGF13. Will try to see if any other OO
        database vendors might be interested to contribute so far
        we've had quite a positive outcome.

Dave: CERN use objectivity databases ...

Thomas: I heard that they were moving to Oracle 10g

Dave: yes, but they'll still have large amounts data which will not
      migrate to Oracle 10g for a while in Objectivity databases.

Thomas: the Wendelstein 7X Fusion experiment will be using objectivity
        and they expect about 1Tb of data/day to carry through ..

Dave: Peter Kuntz might be able to put you in touch with other folks
      at CERN that may have interest in this.

Norman: it's inching forward ... would be good to get more people
        involved. Will have a heads up at the next GGF. Will not try
        to put anything explicitly in the charter until after the
        heads up but it's going forward well thus far.


o OGSA Data Architecture as it affects DAIS (Dave Berry)

Dave B.: background - trying to get a much better list of services and
         a better data architecture for OGSA. What is there at the
         moment is taken from the OGSA Data Service document ... but
         there are a whole bunch of services that are needed that are
         not described in any detail. Up to this point have been
         collecting use cases and getting people involved.  Having a 3
         hour telcon scheduled for tomorrow to talk about the use
         cases and try to come up with an architecture. need people
         from DAIS to be involved - which they are - and others to
         review what comes out from this effort. There has been some
         discussion between Allen and me to clarify the remit between
         the design team and the data service document people. We want
         to make sure that changes that happen in the DAIS OGSA Data
         service document are taken into account into the OGSA
         document.

         Peter Kuntz and Ian Baird have been recruited. Andrew
         Grimshaw is also involved.

Dave: Any questions? I will be contributing some use cases for the
      commercial case .... the output from this effort will be useful
      for validating the work that DAIS is doing.

Dave B: keen to know if there are any constraints that arise from DAIS
        that are applicable to the OGSA work.

Dave: I would like to see composite requests being dealt with - the
      difference between a pipeline and workflow - any work that can
      be done in that area would be of interest.

Dave B.: I have a personal interest in this. Keep on nagging Malcolm
         Atkinson to contribute ...but he's busy. Intension is to
         submit the OGSA document at GGF11 but the data part may not
         be in a good state by that time. There is a f2f at ANL the 11
         & 12th of May ... if anyone is interested then they should
         try to contribute to make sure that data is an important part
         of the OGSA document... if the document gets put forward at GGF11
         then need to discuss whether data services are correct.

Dave: what are the time scales?

Dave B: OGSA is supposed to be the specification for the Open Grid
        Service Architecture ... not just DAIS .... would like input
        from other WGs.

Vijay: wish to understand the remit of the OGSA WG as they have
       adopted WSRF ... OGSA had a design philosophy and then they
       went to WSRF ... should data requirements be in line with the
       WSRF spec or in line with the old OGSA specification.

Dave B.: the new doc is being re-written to take into account WSRF.
         There may be a revision at some later point.

Viajy: one of the problems I see is that they have adopted a new spec
       - I'm not sure what the process that was used...

Dave B.: it was discussed in the OGSA mailing list and telcons ...
         that's how the decision was undertaken ....

Vijay: raises concerns if that group is not stable

Dave B: not intending to hop around ...

Vijay: just trying to understand the process.

Mario: the fact that the OGSA document is going to be submitted for
       GGF11 means that the OGSA doc will be based on WSRF which by
       that stage will not a standard?

Norman: the OGSA document will not be a standard ... will it be a
        recommendation? It can't be a recommendation if WSRF is not a
        standard ... ?

Dave B. : not sure ...

Dave: WSRF will not mature for at least a year ...

Dave B.: I will try and find out what the process is going to be.

Dave: if the doc is going to be submitted at GGF11 and if it's not
      going to be a standard then there will be a chance to change the
      data bit at some future date.

Dave B.: will try to find out what the status is going to be and what
         versioning is going to be used.

Brian: are there are any plans at GGF11 during the OGSA session to
       focus on the data parts of that document?

Dave B.: yes there are ...

Brian: that's good news ... there may be conflicting sessions from
       other relevant WG meetings if the DAIS people want to go to
       that ... would be nice to ensure that it does not conflict with
       any data focused areas.

Norman: I have asked that DAIS sessions do not conflict with OGSA
        sessions... OGSA and DAIS get scheduled first so we should be
        in with a good chance....

Dave B.: OGSA Data session is being discussed for 30(?) mins on Tues
     at 10:30 ... there are also some design team session where data
     gets discussed for 45 mins.

o AoB

Brian: Neil Chue Hong and I have been working on a file group charter
       BOF for GGF11 have had some comments back from Peter Kuntz and
       Martin Westhead which then allowed us to produce a second
       version ... the second version has gone out to the list for
       comment. Peter Clarke has kindly offered to host a telcon to
       see if there are any overlaps with other groups ... final
       submission is on the 14 or 15 May ... would encourage that
       anyone has an interest in this to please comment.

Dave: reminds people of the planned content of future DAIS meetings.
