DAIS Telcon 08/04/04
====================

Chair: Dave Pearson
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:

        Mario Antonioletti, EPCC.
	Neil Chue Hong, EPCC.
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester.
	Dave Pearson, Oracle.
        Thomas Soddemann, RZG.
        Simon Laws, IBM.
	Susan Malaika, IBM.

 Agenda:

     Actions from the previous telcon
     Status report on parallel activities:

       - Files
       - OO databases
       - CIM/DMTF
       - OGSA Data Services activities (part of OGSA-WG led by Dave Berry)
       - Mapping DAIS to WS-* models

     AoB

New Actions:
------------

[Dave] To type up names of folks that said were interested in files at GGF9 
       and pass this on to Neil.

Actions Resulting from previous Meetings:
-----------------------------------------

[Simon] Ensure that DAIS liaises with other GGF WGs in a systematic
        fashion. (Identify persons that are interacting with other GGF
        groups and document this).

Dead Actions
------------

[Norman] Inform the data area chairs about and discuss how to
         proceed with regards to File/OO database access.

	 Done.
	 
--------

Dave starts the meeting.

Discussion about the action on Simon to identify persons in DAIS that
are liaising with other GGF WGs. Simon is trying to document who is
talking to who.

Norman mentioned the fact that Brian has a set of slides that
establish the links between different GGF groups, dealing in
particular with data management. He may be asked to repeat this at
GGF11 and then names can be associated with links.

Dave mentions that this is a more general data area issue.

Files:

Neil reports on files. Have engaged with Brian regarding the file BOF
for GGF11.  Have created a draft charter that has been circulated to
interested parties. Currently working on a second draft that will have
a wider circulation.

Dave has a list of interested parties that were taken at GGF9.
Dave will type these up pass these on to Neil.

...

Need to get DA approval to get scheduling for GGF11.


OO Databases:

Norman reports on OO Databases. In much the same position as before
but have now scheduled a telcon. Need to construct an agenda for the
telcon. Have got an email from Thomas which Norman has not replied to
yet. Warming up, have a few people in the loop.

CIM/DMTF:

Susan - nothing much has happened as Larry Flon is currently
away. There was a call last week but this was kind of quiet. Larry
proposing a telcon for next week, either the 14/4 or the 21/4 - same time
as the OGSA Data Architecture calls. 

Susan will feedback the time of the call is not very suitable. Would
17:00 UK time would be ok for the other call?

Folks seem to agree.

Larry has been asking if anyone can volunteer a phone facility for the
call?

*silence*

OGSA Data Architecture:

Mario reports back on the OGSA Data Architecture activity. Nothing
much to report other than Dave Berry has posted the minutes for the
telcon that took place last week. Also, Ian Foster has posted to the
ogsa-wg list asking for the OGSA Data Services to be considered by the
OGSA Data Architecture activity.

Susan mentions that homework has been set - supposed to look up the
use cases from the OGSA WG use cases document and identify data
requirements. Dave mentions the fact that DAIS is developing a set of
scenarios that perhaps should also be considered by this activity.

Currently the OGSA Data Architecture folks are asking for the existing
OGSA use cases to be considered.

Will try to suggest that the DAIS scenario paper should also be
considered at the next OGSA Data Architecture telcon.

Some discussion over the naming of OGSA Data Service - better to use
OGSA Data Services for the activity being led by Dave Berry.

Mapping of Models:

Simon reports on this activity. Making progress. Sastry is currently
on leave. Have split the remaining sections between Savas and
Simon. Have submitted an abstract to the UK All Hands Meeting. Hope to
put something out to the list quite soon.

Susan mentions that it is eagerly awaited. Simon mentions that has not
reached any conclusions but it has been an instructional exercise.

AOB:

Susan - infod wants to set up calls. 9pm Friday pacific has been
suggested but this would be 5pm uk time. Another time that has been
suggested is after the DAIS telcon.

Dave - mentions the proliferation of calls that are arising - 
transactions, infod, dais, architecture ...

Susan - mentions starting the call after the DAIS call, 6pm.

Dave thinks that this is a good idea.

Norman not sure if he will attend all infod calls. 

DAIS went to weekly calls so as to have themed calls which has not
happened yet. We should try to do this in future. Should not be
difficult to do this.

Dave - if we had themed call would we need one every week?

Simon - we will soon be closer to review specific items.

Susan - we could always cancel calls.

Dave - best to keep it as separate calls (infod) ... after DAIS or on
Friday.

...

Norman - have 6 weeks before the GGF document deadline ... could have
themed calls on:

	- data services
	- data architecture
	- oo
	- mapping
	- aspects of the specifications

We could come up with an order for these soon. Could have an early
discussion in May about mappings ... various times mentioned
for the other topics. We should try to theme calls ...

Susan - should we discuss data architecture next week? They have a
call next week...

Norman - could have data services ...

Susan - Allen has another call at the same time ...

Dave - do we have one or two themes?

Susan - could start with the data architecture and then move to data
services?

...

Simon - overlap between data services and data architecture is where
they interact. Would also like to talk about items on the spec ....

Consensus seems to be a theme plus a spec item.

Norman - have entered a period where there is less to discuss
... could cancel next week's call and then do a two theme call the
week after.  This gives us a fortnight to collect the topics. Plan to
set up the six week schedule. Norman will post a proposal to the list
and solicit feedback and check availability.

Susan - infod will happen after DAIS or on a Friday?

Thursday is the preference (after the DAIS call) and then Fridays.

Mario asks Simon to pass the token for the core spec before going on
holiday next week. Simon said he would do so. Norman asks not to get
it.


