DAIS Telcon - 01/11/07
======================

Attendees:
	  Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	  Dave Pearson, Oracle
	  Isao Kojima, AIST
	  Said Mirza, AIST

Agenda:

   Progress report on RDF specification
   Co-chair vacancies

+--

Progress on RDF specs:

Isao has loaded presentations from OGF21 on to GridForge.

Miguel should be able to meet the same schedule as AIST for the
production of documents.

There is an agreed schedule - get the glossary of terms done by
December, finish the use case document by the end of November and
submit the documents by the next OGF.

In the OGF21 meeting notes Miguel said that he had use cases for his
specification but does not currently have time to write them up - this
should be done by the end of November.

AIST plan to implement the specification produced by Miguel's group
and the hope is that Miguel's group will implement the AIST
specification.

No new members were picked up at OGF21. Difficult to pick up new
contributors. Should try to develop contacts with people building
applications to see if they can be used to contribute.

Miguel is now working for a semantic web project with good use cases
which it is hoped that he will contribute.

Chairs:

Chair vacancies were publicised within the working group.  This
produced no volunteers.  Isao and Mario are willing to take over as
DAIS chairs in the absence of any competition.  Dave will send an
email to the working group and an email to David Martin and Erwin
Laure to let people know what the process undertaken to select chairs
was.  Dave is still hoping to participate in future calls - he will
try to promote this work internally within Oracle and externally but
in his current role he has found it difficult to attend OGF and
perform activites on behalf of the group.

Mario and Isao thanked Dave Pearson for having acted as DAIS chair.

Dave thanks Isao and Said for the work undertaken on their
specification.

Next call will take place at some point after SC07.
