DAIS Telcon 13/05/04
====================

Chair: Dave Pearson
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Brian Collins, IBM
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Vijay Dialany, University Southampton
	Amy Krause, EPCC
	Simon Laws, IBM
	Steve Langella, Ohio State
	Susan Malaika, IBM

 Agenda:

     Actions from the previous telcon
     CIM/DMTF and DAIS (Susan Malaika) 
     Relational and XML Specification Issues (Brian Collins/Amy Krause) 
     AoB

New Actions:
------------

[Steve] Send Amy some words about removing document from a collection
        by using an XPath expression for possible inclusion in the XML
        realisation.

Actions Resulting from previous Meetings:
-----------------------------------------


[Dave] Email Greg and Malcolm to determine a time when they might be
       able to join a telcon in order to see how to take the composite
       request framework forward.

       Dave will send a reminder.

[Simon] Document the DAIS folks that are liaising with other GGF WGs.

Dead Actions
------------

[Norman] Talk to Allen to suggest having a discussion of the OGSA Data
         Service document at GGF12 and check to see whether Allen
         wants to have a session at GGF11 to discuss the Data Services.

        Done.

----- 

o CIM/DMTF and DAIS (Susan Malaika) 

Susan: wrote a scenarios doc for GGF10 ... 

The phone link that Susan was using was breaking up so she went off the 
call to find a new phone. She did not come back but sent the summary email
included below:

- Brian Collins and I have been on recent CGS calls. Larry Flon is the
  GGF CGS (CIM Grid Schema) Working Group Co-Chair. Larry is handling
  the DMTF Collaboration for DAIS. Perhaps Larry or Andrea (DMTF rep)
  can join the DAIS call today at 9am pacific

- CGS Information is here

https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewCategory.php?group_id=61&category_id


- The CGS Charter in support of DAIS is here

https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/cgs-wg/document/First_Draft_New_Charter_for_CGS-WG/en/1

The motivation for the collaboration is that DAIS was defining items
such as "database capabilities", which the DMTF already models. DMTF
CIM (Common Information Mosels) are already supported by many
tools. The GGF CGS-WG had already been collaborating with the DMTF.
We agreed that we should ensure a common approach for modelling and
representing the characteristics of data across DAIS and the
DMTF. CGS-WG kindly agreed to help.

- A scenarios document was produced for GGF10 to focus the CGS group's
  extensions for the DMTF models for data and databases. Larry asked
  for more work on the scenarios document, which I'm looking at.  See
  the scenarios document here:

https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewCategory.php?group_id=61&category_id=626

- Larry has produced a model for columns and tables:

  See the attachment to:

  http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/dais-wg/2004/05/msg00004.html

- The latest minutes are here

https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/cgs-wg/document/Minutes_of_Telecon_11-May-2004/en/1

- The next call is on Tuesday May 18th at 9am pacific - We'll be
  looking more closely at data types and scenarios. We hope you can
  join us.

o Relational and XML Specification Issues (Brian Collins/Amy Krause) 

Brian sent out a presentation to the mailing list:

http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/WS-DAI-Relational-Recommendation/en/1

The relational realisation, now called WS-DAIR, has got up to version 0.4.
Presently only in slide format.
Had a f2f for the editors in London last week. 
The slide set distributed represents the present view.

Slide number 3 presents the changes that have made to the spec.

Four major changes are:

     - Had 3 access operations: query, update and execute. Now only
       have one - execute. The query and update operations were really
       mappings to JDBC. Also update and query were just subsets of
       execute. This fits better with the presentation in the xml
       realisation. A number of people have expressed an opinion that
       this would be a better approach in the past.

     - Had a DBOperationAccess has been renamed to DBResponseAccess
       aimed at getting the responses from stored procedure. We need
       something to get at all the different sort of outputs that can
       come out of execute.

     - We've never really catered for all of the exceptions that
       come back from relational databases. This is not standardised.
       There is SQLCommunicationArea that we can borrow from in JDBC.
       Can now bring exceptions and warnings from the database back
       to the client.

     - Rationalisation of some of the keywords. Renaming for
       consistency across the other recommendations. Mixed use of
       capitalisation ...  from now on the first character of an
       operation will always be a capital letter across all the DAIS
       specs.

Inappropriate to go over all the slides now. Have outlined the most
important changes. Currently moving the slides into the document
format. Have an editors telcon next Monday. Should have a document
version of the spec by then. Document submission is on the 21st of
May.

Short discussion regarding the outcome of the telcon last week where
Norman had got approval to submit the DAIS documents on this date.

Currently on target to have a first draft over this Friday and will
probably iterate through several other drafts next week.

Amy on the XML spec.

The main changes from the last version were:

  - Added xml sequence interface similar to the relational rowset to
    represent results from the XQuery or XPath access interfaces...

  - Moved xmlcollectionmanagment back to xmlcollectionaccess ... have
    done this before. This interface allows you to create
    sub-collections.

  - The XPathFactory portType has disappeared and an equivalent to the
    createService operation has been added to the XPathAccess access
    portType. This interface no has two operations that can either
    return the result set or a service handle to the result
    set. Similarly with the XqueryFactory interfaces.

  -  Trying to align with the other specs.

Steve: gone through the latest version ... collectionAccess ... should
       there not be an operation to remove documents using an XPath
       expression?

Amy: can note that down

Steve: could write some text...

Amy: but one cannot remove parts of a file ...

Steve: ... use the XPath on the collection... also XPath query
       .... should we be able to specify a response format in the
       query ... if you put an XPath query can you specify that you
       want back handles instead of the documents?

Amy: that's what the factory does ... it has not been removed ...has
     just moved to a different portType...

Steve: ok ... in the xmldocumentfactory it does not take a collection
       name - should it not take a collection name?

Amy: yes, I will have a look at that ... the collection name could be
     part of the document name ... will have a look at that.

Dave: Steve, it would be good if you summarised your points in the
      email that you send to Amy about using XPath expression to
      remove documents from a collection.

Mario: have taken some notes at the editors f2f ... these are not
       minutes ... should these be disseminated ..

Dave: if it helps with the rationale as to why decisions were taken
      then they should be aired...

Mario: ok will do as Simon suggested and post on gridforge and make
       people aware of it

Dave: can refer people to it if folks question decisions.... so
      everything seems to be on track

Brian, Amy: yes.

Brian: have to do several iterations to get the specs in sync in
       relation to the core document.

Amy: will send out a draft version of the xml spec to the mailing list
     tomorrow for people to comment on.

Dave: you can do that with the relational Brian?

Brian: yes ... probably ... maybe the weekend though.

Susan sent out an email in case she could not get back on the call.
Dave summarised this.

Brian: to comment Dave, I've been on most of the CIM/DMTF calls and
       progress has been fairly brisk ...

Dave: one thing that we talked about was arranging a meeting with CGS
      ... has that been talked about ... do not feel that it's really
      necessary as there seems to be a lot of collaborative work ...

...

o AoB 

Brian: had a telcon on Tuesday with Peter Clarke and Neil Chue Hong
       for data area chairs for a files BOF... no one else dialled in
       ... have had some feedback from other groups that, now that the
       charter has been changed, there is no overlap .. BOF will go
       ahead at GGF11. Have asked for dial-in access for the BOF for
       those folks that will not be able to attend. Details will be
       emailed out nearer the time.

Mario: Norman is trying to set up an OO Database realisation telcon
       probably next week ...  time has yet not been finalised.

Dave: next week we discuss document issues ... one day before the
      submission date ... hopefully there will be none ... might be
      useful to use that telcon to also discuss planning.




