DAIS Telcon Minutes 04/03/04
----------------------------

Minutes by: Mario Antonioletti (mario@epcc.ed.ac.uk).

Attendees: 

	   Mario Antonioletti (EPCC)
	   Dave Pearson (Oracle)
	   Brian Collins (IBM)
	   Norman Paton (University of Manchester)
	   Simon Laws (IBM)	
	   Allen Luniewski (IBM)
	   Susan Malaika (IBM)

Agenda
======

o Discussion of the GGF10 DAIS sessions. Working Programme is as follows:

Session 1: Grid Data Services Specification [Dave Pearson to Chair]:

   1. Introduction. Review of Activities to Date: Dave Pearson (5 minutes)
   2. Grid Data Services Specification Update: Simon Laws (15 minutes)
   3. Discussion of Grid Data Service Specification Issues: Simon Laws 
      (30 minutes)
   4. Management Functionality - Issues and Boundaries: Brian Collins 
      (20 minutes)
   5. Discussion of Management Functionality: Brian Collins (20 minutes)

Session 2: Specification Realisations [Norman Paton to Chair]:

   1. Relational Realisation: Susan Malaika (40 minutes)
   2. XML Realisation: Amery Krause (40 minutes)
   3. Summary/Plans (10 minutes)

Session 3: Information Dissemination and Charter [Dave Pearson to Chair]:

   1. Information Distribution: Shailendra Mishra (45 minutes)
   2. DAIS Charter and Milestones: Norman Paton (45 minutes)

Session 4: Discussion of Implications of WS-Resource [Norman Paton to Chair]

   1. Implications for OGSA Data Services: Allen Luniewski (30 Minutes)
   2. Representing DAIS Functionalities using Emerging WS-Standards: 

      Panel (60 minutes)
      Panel is: Simon Laws, Allen Luniewski, Savas Parastatidis, Sastry 
                Malladi

----

Norman: talk our way through the programme.

Discussion about the ordering of the sessions. Session 4 takes place
before sessions 1, 2 and 3.

        Session 1 GDS overview ... Dave will warm the audience, Simon
	has sent out some draft slides.

Simon: session 1 is a 15 min update ... slides cannot have worked out with
       the timing. Slides have ... 

Norman: would not worry too much about the timing ... have no idea how 
        to change the text in the programme.

Simon: change ... from function .... active topics that will be
       discussed elsewhere and then spend a bit of time talking about
       the work that has been done on terms and explain that it is not
       a complete list. Have factored the terms to be presented
       in-accordance with the ogsa data service interface descriptions.

Norman: Simon has circulated the slides to a few people inviting comment.

Simon: if you could compare this (Norman) to what you presented at the
       face-to-face that would be very welcome.

Norman: Brian management....

Brian: in the process of putting some slides together based on the
       notes that I put out to the DAIS WG ... what is the process?

Norman: we do not normally send out slides before ... we are supposed
        to have papers for the sessions but not the slides for the
        presentation ... would not be too concerned about squeezing
        the presentation in order to encourage the discussion as the
        presentations will engender discussion as long as you leave a
        little bit of time at the end for discussion.

Brian: I am happy ...

Norman: people on the call though would be happy to provide feedback
        if you circulate the slides to them.  Other comments? ... on
        we go ... Specification Realisations.

Susan: have been chatting to Amy/Mario as to what should be covered in 
       this session and you have had some input Norman....

Norman: there are various places where we can discuss the nature of the
	documents ... Simon will to some extent touch on this ... 

Susan: I'll have a word with Simon and see what's he got ... 

Norman: do not want to go through the issues if they are the same ...
        ... could give a bit of time in session 3 to discuss the
        structure of the documents which may be helpful. We'll have a
        greater idea about the documents from the session on mappings.
        Session 4 comes before session 2 which examines the mappings
        which will be helpful ... have had some email discussion
        ... not sure if they are converging/diverging ...

Susan: I think we are converging ... we can carry on the email discussion
       and then present conclusions/options as charts ...

Norman: on the realisation front if there are open issues that have not
	already been discussed it might be interesting to discuss these,
	e.g. are the terms that are being floated applicable in the
	specialisations and are there other terms that are applicable
	at these levels?

Susan: the terms are going to be pulled together in session 1?

Norman: yes, it might be useful to see whether someone in a relational
	setting is happy with these terms ... and similarly in an XML
	settings ... and there might be things that are paradigm
	specific .....

Susan: in addition to going through the realisations there are the terms
       and the document structure ...

Norman: just throwing these things over the wall. This is really your
	and Amy's sessions. Folks may get more idea about terms are
	specific ...

Simon: it would be nice to see if we are following the right terms

Dave: are you going to allow discussion on terms that are applicable to
      files as well?

Norman: maybe Susan/Amy could relate terms to XML and relational and
	then we would have structured input on these ... not sure if
	you could do this for files .... Martin is not attending. It
	would be difficult to ask for input on terms for files.

...

Simon: will send my presentation to Amy as well ...

Norman: anything else Susan?

Susan: no it's ok ... will try to put something together ... concerned
       that we have too much time ...

Norman: the document structure may help out with that....  session 3 -
       I hope that this is under control ... dissemination people are
       always in control ... emailed the charter to Dave and Mario
       .... not sure if I should bat out that out in advance to the
       list .  This is the charter for DAIS as we've fallen off our
       previous charter .... need to tell GGF what we are going to do
       ... there is nothing secret with this ... just tried Dave and
       Mario first.  ... will send it out in advance. ... Session 4
       which comes first ... Allen and you have interacted on the call
       ...

Allen: I'm comfortable ... need to interact with Susan ...

Some discussion took place on the DAIS schedule. There is an
unfortunate clash between the data dissemination BOF and one of the
DAIS sessions.

...

Norman: we think that session 4 is under control. Are there other things
	that we should be discussing?

Susan: Are you Dave/Norman going to be responding to the data area workshop?

Norman: Dave is going to be responding...

Dave: solicit feedback from the DAIS WG ... have had some input from Deiter.
      Would be keen to have comments from other people.

...

Norman: Dave will do his response ....

Dave: Could even make it shorter than that ...

Susan: have a lot going on, the CGS and DMTF people want to present as
       well so less than 10 mins would be fine.

Norman: wondered whether if we might get together to discuss some of
	the details for forward planning ... the best day for that was
	on the 2pm on the 10th ... or a little bit earlier ... we
	could try for 1pm to allow for the fact that lunch could take
	a while. This would give us from 1 to 3:30pm.

Susan: Could we meet after DAIS 1?

Norman: possibly ... or is thursday chair appreciation night? Let's
	try the one on the 10th anyway and we might manage something
	later.  ... shall see all of you in Berlin.

