Notes from DAIS call on Tuesday 5 July 2005
===========================================

Notes: Susan Malaika

Participants:
        Amy Krause, Simon Laws, Susan Malaika, Norman Paton, David Pearson
Apologies: 
        Mario Antonioletti,  Thomas Soddemann
.......................................................................................................................................
Action: Norman to publicize the following DAIS calls subject to feedback 
from Simon regarding Friday (All times are UK)
- WS-DAI - 4pm on Friday 8th July 
- WS-DAIR - 5:30pm on Thursday 14th July 
- Derived Data Sets - 3:00pm on Friday 22nd July 
- WS-DAIX - 4pm Thursday 28th July 
Action: Simon to change Data Conduit to WSRF Data Resource in WS-DAI 
specification
Action: Norman and the DAIS specification team to investigate WS-Naming 
and the OGSA profile and their potential relationship with DAIS
..............................................................................................................................................................

The first part of the call was to brief Simon Laws who was not at GGF

Norman Paton said: 
  - Basic lesson from GGF14 is to proceed
  - No major feedback
 
Simon asked about Conduit: 
  - Norman suggested the term "WSRF Data Resource" as an alternative to 
Conduit .
  - Some resources are identified by an abstract name and others  by WSRF 
naming mechanisms "WSRF Data Resource"

Simon pointed out that the Conduit (now "WSRF Data Resource") has an 
extensible mechanism for properties to enable realizations to be handled - 
rather than associating a properties document with a port type as  in 
WSRF. Norman said that had not been especially noted. 

Dave Pearson pointed out that OGSA profiles have to do with WSRF 

Norman Paton re-capped that there was no major feedback from GGF14, other 
than terminology 

Simon asked about OGSA-Data sessions. Norman responded 
(1) Data Movement - The session was abstract and high level
(2) Data Architecture Overview - No major issues
(3) Data Transactions - Agreed that data services are orthogonal to 
transactions

Simon reported on WS-DAI
- Need to sort out terminology 

Susan Malaika reported WS-DAIR 
- Ensure consistency with WS-DAI
- Close GridForge open issues 
- Check on DMTF Namespace 

Amy Krause reported WS-DAIX 
- Need to add the WSDL 

We agreed we need a call on semantics of derived data sets and to validate 
then across DAIS core and realizations
Characteristics that a derived data sets need to be examined. Consider two 
scenarios:
- retrieving data in one shot and creating derived dataset 
- retrieving data through a cursor and creating derived dataset while 
cursor open 

We agreed Norman's July target submission date precarious and may need to 
submit in August
- Dave Pearson is out from 27th July -  (Dave Pearson will review the 
specifications)
- Simon out three days next week
- Amy out for a week from the 15th July 

Simon mentioned Objectivity person he met - He is quite interested WS-DAIO 
and plans to join the DAIS calls 
Thomas is going to tighten up the WS-DAIO document so it can be used to 
recruit people 

During AOB Norman discussed:
- Reference Implementations - in particular will be  getting started later 
on XML implementation at Manchester because of two tasks and one body 
scenario (person assigned had left Manchester) 
 
