DAIS Telcon Minutes 19/02/04
----------------------------

Minutes by: Mario Antonioletti (mario@epcc.ed.ac.uk).

Attendees: 
	   Allen Luniewski (IBM)
	   Brian Collins (IBM)
	   Mario Antonioletti (EPCC)
	   Dave Pearson (Oracle)
	   Inderpal Narang (IBM)
	   Vijay Dialani (University of Southampton)
	   Norman Paton (University of Manchester)
	   Sastry Mallady (Oracle)

Agenda
======

    Points arising from minutes of the Redwood face-2-face meeting
    Progress on activities for GGF10
        Sematics and Metadata
        Spec documents
        DAIS requested session for GGF10 on WS Resource proposal
    Scope of data management in DAIS
    DAIS roadmap beyond GGF10

---

o Points arising from minutes of the Redwood face-2-face meeting

  Minutes distributed were distributed by Susan. 

Dave: included in the agenda in case anyone wanted to ask any
      questions on this. ... ok so there are no issues.

o Progress on activities for GGF10

  - Sematics and Metadata

Norman: on the semantics front nothing in particular has happened
        within the last week. Previously some interaction between
        Simon, Norman and Mario. Have been trying to get the key
        notions. Have a small collection of core concepts (terms) that
        have now been included in the core spec. This only produced a
        little extra text. Other than that not too much extra
        progress. The next step will be to nail the semantics as to
        how these terms inter-relate and that will require more
        work. Hope to have made more progress describing the
        relationships for GGF10.

Dave: seem to remember that something would be published this week.

Norman: don't remember that this...

Mario: Dave you gave Simon the option as to whether to publish
       something this week or to leave it until the slides were more
       polished off. You wanted to prevent too much unnecessary work
       in case the content required iteration but Simon preferred to
       spend a little more time thinking and polishing the slides off.

Norman: Simon was concerned that the slides by themselves would not be
        that helpful. Hope that the text would help with this. ... My
        feeling that the way to proceed is that we will work over the
        fortnight leading up to GGF10 trying to polish the slides for
        GGF10 and present the work there.  ... As with Metadata ... I
        interpret this to refer to the DMTF collaboration ... Susan
        has updated the scenarios document and sent it through to
        Larry to see if he wants to put it on their list. Don't know
        if he is going to ciruclate it on their list. We could
        circulate it on our list but would require to get comments
        very quickly...

Dave: I have some comments ... have been talking to a chap from DMTF
      and it took them 3 weeks to define a database ... not reached 
      the resource granularity...

Norman: they have schema on their todo list... the CGS group have
        offered to pick up and run with some of the DAIS
        requirements. They will act as the interface with DMTF.... one
        part of the document that Susan is distributing deals with
        deployment and the other with discovery.  Have restricted
        deployment to SQL matters ...

Dave: we have two options - we publish the document or CGS does ...

Norman: Susan has seen it that CGS are quite keen to own the document ...
	we could publish it on both lists and let the CGS people run with
	it.....

Dave: Have tried to come up with some text defining the line between 
      management and DDL. There's an issue on how you deal with strings.

Brian: Patrique and I have had some discussions and outlined another
       line of management that deals with quality of service ... there
       is a class of managment where you are telling the system what
       to do and not how you do it while there is another class of
       commands that deal with how you do a task which affect the
       QoS. That line of reasoning may help ... thinking of updating
       stuff that has been written with Patrique ... what do you
       think?

-- Sastry fell off the telcon at this point.

Dave: DB administration starts where you start dealing with the overall
      resources and the architecture ... and also the QoS .. most DB
      managers have the privileges to create schema, update tables and
      that class of operations I see as being valid in DAIS but the
      problem is that you can cut in several ways ... our approach in
      the specs has been fairly minimalist ... tried to produce some
      wording which was independent of the relational DBMSs.

Brian: in terms of the scenarios you are right ... maybe I'll continue
       having discussion with those that are interested ...

Mario: is it worth posting to the list and open up the discussion?

Brian: will talk to to Patrique and see if it's worth adding some
       words on QoS ... and then open this up and put it out to the
       list.

Dave: what has been proposed could be put up as management....

Vijay: not sure how the service model that we are proposing with the
       level of detail we are looking at works ... are we looking at a
       closed or an open system ... if we are providing these services
       how does one define the autonomy?

Dave: not in scope to define dabatabse architectural constructs
      ... that would be part of management ... what the services
      should provide ... DBMSs are already fairly sophisticatd that
      already have associated privileges with them ... do these things
      go in an administrator model ... there is a deficiency that
      there should be a portType to manage the underlying
      infrastrucutre .. as well as the service


Inderpal: we need to nail down the data managment portyType...

...

Vijay: agree with the use case but if we give different portTypes
       different security model then we will only be able to find
       these things at run time ... the model requires a bit of
       refineement.

Dave: the problem is that we pass everything as a string in the
      current model ... have discussed this with simon. If you are
      passing through strings then it's up to the implementation as to
      whether they do any string checking ...

Mario: I agree with that ...

Vijay: I beg to differ ... we have adopted a stop gap ... assume local
       queries will be executed in a particular way ... I think things
       will evolve into a more sophisticatd way

Dave: do you have any suggestions?

Vijay: I do not have a complete model but I believe that the model has
       been evolving ...

Dave: if we don't use string passing then we would have an explosion
      in portTypes...

Vijay: I don;'t think the solution is to adopt a parser ...

Dave: but everyone agrees that that is an implementation decision ...
      that's an implementation decision ...

Norman: it's quite a difficult position which we are exploring ... if
        we look at the two types of management: managing the service
        or the underlying resource ... what we can build on from what
        is being produced by the DMTF manages the resource ... if we
        seek the DMTF stuff which is all about descriptiona as opposed
        to action then that will provide us with a working model but
        then we need to sort out the service properties but then this
        leads to an inconsistency about the granularity of how we
        describe things and the granularity of what we can do with it
        ... when you ask of what one can do to manipulate these things
        you end up being able to do only a little with the operations
        that we have ... so that you could argue that we are being
        inconsistent .... can get consistency by leaning on the SQL
        specs ... it's a complicated space ... we are not trying to
        import huge amounts of work on to the DAIS group so that's why
        we are leaning on DMTF.

Inderpal: can we build adaptors to manage the data resource ... we
          should focus on the data service management ....

Dave: it would be easier to manage that the data service but as
      Malcolm pointed out at the ANL f2f that you also have to manage
      the underlying data resource somehow.  Concern that DMTF is an
      object model and we may have problems getting consistency ...

Allen: uncomfortable about pushing too hard in trying to manage the
       underlying data resource ... there are lots of difficulties ...

Dave: by management we are talking about a class of operations that
      can be considered as management - privileges about the objects,
      the creation of those objects and little more than that ... that
      would be in the scope of DAIS everything else should be out of
      scope for DAIS ... the resources that are relevant to us are
      relevant to those described by CGS.

Allen: I see those things that are coming out of the data service...

Inderpal: index would not be exposed through a data service ... QoS is
          handle autonomously by the data resources ....

Dave: what if you are doing a distributed query and we want to create
      an index to have more efficient process ...

Vijay: there are various forms of distributed query processing ...
       there is a shared state that cannot be made visible in a Grid
       environment

Norman: depending on the level of service you may require more/less
        knowledge about the data resource ... Inderpal's suggestion is
        that yoou provide enough information to phrase a request
        ... if you want then to find out how much is going to cost
        then you require another level of information ... now you
        could do the 2nd step by exposing more info about the data
        ... which is what Vijay is arguing against or you could do it
        in an operational way where a data resource would take in a
        query and return the relevant type of information. Within a
        Grid environment you would want to support this amount of
        information.

Dave: I don't think that it's just an issue for distributed queries
      might want to perform a scan of atable as supposed to a read
      ... if you constrain the nature of the service then in a
      commercial environment you would not use a Grid as most of what
      we are talking about is already available in a DBMS...

Inderpal: but these things are pushed down by a data service.. that's
        my current thing ... I don't think we should be exposing scan
        vs index they should just provide quality of service ...

Dave: I dont think that these things should be exposed to the user but
      the application may need to know certain characteristics about
      these things ... if you publish 20 services for accessing the
      same data an application will require QoS data to determine
      which service it will use

Inderpal: you really require a higher level description ...

Brian: can expand and open my previous email and expose to the list
       ...  would like some input from the XML side as well... not
       aimed at producing something for GGF10

Dave: so if you evolve a doc that describes the discussion up to date
      - how DAIS should deal with DDL? ...

Brian: not for GGF10 ... not enough time ... will mail to the mailing
       list and for the next GGF will have something more concrete to
       push out.

Norman: so do we include Dave's material on to the doc?

Consensus is that it will be incorporated.

  - Spec documents

Mario: have made some changes to all three docs. I then passed the 
       docs on to Norman came up with some further issues, as below:

     - Adding examples of the terms as extensibility parameters to
       the createService activity.

     - Nothing much is said about notifications. Perhaps we simply
       state in Section 3.4 that notifications can be associated with
       all SDEs in the specification?

     - Not done anything to management, in the light of the ongoing
       discussions - I am hoping that someone who has been at the
       relevant telcon can implement some changes.

     - In the XML specification, not always sure of the relationship
       between the boolean result and some of the faults. Thus I can't
       tell when an operation may return with false to indicate that a
       request was not completed, and when it might return with a
       Fault of the 'any other fault' variety.

    - The relational and XML specifications are not consistent in
      terms of how they descibe parameters to createService
      operations.

I've not had time to address these since then these other than adding
Dave's management text but I think that there are no show stoppers
there. Amy said that she could provide the terms as extensibility
parameters to the createSerivce operations but she wondered whehter
this was worthwhile doing if it was all just going to be stripped at
the next iteration of the spec. I passed on the relational spec to
Susan as she wanted to add stuff about stored procedures. I can pass
the core spec to Amy and I guess she can have a look at the XML issues.

It was agree that:

   Susan would get the relational token.
   Amy would get tokens for the core and xml specs. Norman will interact 
   with Amy regarding any modifications that need to be made..

  - DAIS requested session for GGF10 on WS Resource proposal

Sastry fell off the call so this issue was not addressed.

 o Scope of data management in DAIS

This item was addressed earlier on in the call.

 o DAIS roadmap beyond GGF10

Dave: you brought this item up so maybe you could say a couple of things.

Mario: there is a concern within OGSA-DAI that the DAIS specs are not
       converging and that they may not do so within the lifetime of
       the OGSA-DAI project. Even if they do then we will require some
       time to be able to implement them. DAIS could very much benefit
       from the feedback that this would provide. If the specs do not
       converge then there OGSA-DAI may disinvest some effort in the
       standardisation procedure as there is no direct benefit in
       trying to do this...


Norman: what was stated at the last f2f is that we will seek to
        reorganize the specs to minimise the dependency on all other
        specs by GGF11 and we should also be able to provide some
        information as to how these things map down on to things like
        WSRF and other frameworks ... the operations and metadata will
        be there and be stable ... the specs just now, as written, are
        slightly more abstract then the WSDL so this should be
        possible ....

Dave: currently ogsa-dai aligned with GGF7. Have funds within OGSA-DAI
      that deal with the standardisation effort ...

Mario: so it is fair to say tha by GGf11 OGSA-DAI could start safely
       implementing the DAIS spec. What if the OGSA Data Service
       document were to be radically factored by then ... how would
       this impact on the DAIS specs?


Norman: we have some control over the ogsa data service
        documents... there should be an updated document for
        GGF10... there will come a time when the ogsa data service
        will stabalize .. should be stable ... the DAIS specs will
        then be revised to take into account the ogsa data services
        spec .. by then no one will have the right to radically modify
        this document ... I don't think that anything is going to
        happen to the data service spec. ...

Allen: the WSRF does not change the data services spec in any
       particular way ...

Norman: our intent is to get the core types nailed by GGF11 .... and
        that whoever wants to implement it will be in a position to do
        so by then.

Dave: OGSA-DAI can influence the spec ...

Norman: OGSA-DAI should not feel incredibly defensive ... it's got a
        lot of influence over the specs.

AOB
---

Norman: (to Inderpal) there was talk at the last f2f about trying to
        put some effort to describe the scenarios

Inderpal: talking about 3rd party delivery?

Norman: no

Inderpal: related to data movement?

Dave: you said that the scenarios should be exposed to a wider
      community... Greg's work with simon was going to act as the
      basis for this and Maha was going to formalise it ...

Norman: is it going to make as a draft for GGF10 by next Tuesday?

Inderpal: yes

Norman: the mechanism for up-loading these documents is that they get
        sent to me on Tuesday and then I upload. I hope that you,
        Allen, are able to do that for the data services document ...

Allen: I'm not hopeful

Norman: that will be an issue ....

Dave: when do you want the documents Norman?

Norman: by 6pm uk time would be a good thing ...

Dave: I will send an email

Norman: Allen we have a session in GGF10 on this document and we will
        need a document ...

Mario: will not be here next week so someone else will have to take
       the minutes.

Dave: Norman and I are staying in the maritime* hotel for GGF10 .... 

Inderpal: was the roadmap discussed?

Dave: that's what Mario brough up earlier on in connection with OGSA-DAI.