DAIS-WG Telcon - Tuesday 16th January 2007
------------------------------------------

Chair     : Dave Pearson
Note taker: Mario Antonioletti

Attendees:
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Miguel Esteban Gutiérrez, UPM
	Amy Krause, EPCC
	Isao Kojima, AIST
	Said Mirza Pahlevi, AIST

Agenda
------

  - Review where we are with the present documents
  - AOB

Actions:

New Actions
-----------
[DP] Propose a telcon to raise awareness of this work about 2 weeks
     after OGF19 where a number of external parties are invited.

[All] Promote DAIS session to OGF19 attendees

Completed Actions
-----------------

[DP] Let Dave de Roure to know that the RDF docs are coming out and
     get him to publicise them at the W3C.

     Done. Have had some feedback from Susie Stephens.
     Should consider the SWIG to get more feedback from W3C.

[DP] Try to get Oracle folks to look at the RDF documents and comment
     on these too.

     Forwarded to Oracle and IBM.

[All] Notify DP of any other people that might be interested in
      reviewing these documents or have a general interest in this
      area.

      MEG contributed one more name.

[DP] Send a reminder to key people about MEG's query sent to the DAIS
     mailing list.

     MEG sent an email and Norman replied to this.

+---


Talked about the strawmen specifications. Ontology first spec first.
Still at the early stages. MEG distributed another document before
the call:

 http://www.ogf.org/pipermail/dais-wg/2007-January/000189.html

Should be posted on the DAIS current docs on Grid Forge. 

What is the next step? 
Need to encourage external participation and get more people reading
these documents.

MEG: the most important thing that is missing is the XML Schema and
      the WSDL.  Hopefully will be done by the end of February.  Also
      need an introduction and a couple of sections to explain the
      terminology to allow people to comment.

MAA: you need to get more engagement to make sure that your spec is
     not too problem specific.

MEG: could try to motivate the work using a use case to take people through
     the process.

DP: Could associate a use case with the document that you sent out and say
    that the WSDL files are coming along. People get a high level overview
    and a statement of where you are. The slides presented at the Washington
    OGF meeting were also quite good for this.

MEG: should be able to provide such a document by the end of February.

DP: should try to organise a telcon with other interested people -
    also use OGF19 to get involvement. Following OGF19 we could hold
    another telcon with people from the DAIS list and some other
    people from outside the list.

    Should provide a simple use case and then use this as a basis to
    engage external people to provide their own use cases.

    Need a request for use cases.

Moving on to the query specification.

    Have a document produced by Isao and Mizra:

    http://www.ogf.org/pipermail/dais-wg/2007-January/000187.html

    They've had no feedback other than from MAA.

MAA: had a brief look and it all seemed consistent with the other DAIS
     documents.

DP: an issues section would be useful.

SM: there is one issue that we have:

    Currently we provide two  interfaces for accessing query result
    provided by the SPARQLFactory (Section 5.6): one is for
    accessing the results returned by a SPARQL select/ask query (Section
    6.5), which is a set of binding solutions, and the other is for
    accessing result returned by a SPARQL construct/describe query
    (Section 6.6), which is a set of triples (i.e., an RDF graph).

    Another approach would be to provide a uniform interface to access
    both types of query results.

DP: this is the type of issue that you could include in the document.

    Document is quite advanced.

SM: an overview will be given at OGF19.

DP: again the provision of use cases would be useful. Get use cases from
    people.

SM: want to revise the motivational document to use the interfaces
    described in the document.

DP: use cases can be used to check the completeness of the work.

Consistency issues between the two groups have not been addressed as yet
but it should not be too difficult to sort this out. MEG will try to post
an email. Can also meet at the next OGF.

Next step: wait for feedback and discuss accordingly.

MEG will try to distribute this document to the Onto grid project to see
if they have any feedback.

MEG, MAA, IK and SM are going to be attending the next OGF. DP and AK
will not be able to.

A lot of work is going on here. We need to increase awareness and to
try to get people involved. Try to get them to give use cases and
get them to feedback.

MEG will be giving a tutorial at Manchester in February. Also, at WWW
meeting in May in Canada where a tutorial will be taking place where
this tutorial will be given again.

DP stated MEG should also try to publicise the query specification at
this meeting.

DONM: TBD, probably about 2 weeks after OGF.
