DAIS Telcon 29/06/04
====================

Chair:   Norman Paton
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Greg Riccardi, Florida State University
	Susan Malaika, IBM
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	Simon Laws, IBM
	Brian Collins, IBM
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Amy Krause, EPCC

 Agenda:

 1. Agree process for Socialising standards documents.
 2. Agree process for logging and addressing issues in standards
    documents.
 3. Agree process for finalising the mapping scenarios document
    produced for GGF11.
 4. Agree process for focusing on open issues relating to mappings
    of DAIS specifications.
 5. Discuss OGSA Data Services Document and relationship to
    OGSA Data Architecture activity.
 6. Discuss how to proceed with Object Data Access Realisation
    proposal in time for GGF12. 

New Actions:

[Dave]  Post a straw man executive summary and set of questions before
        the next call for people to comment on.

[Mario] Post a summary of existing DAIS issues to the list and let folks
        know that the Grid Forge trackers are being used for this.

[Mario] Propose a process for closing issues that are posted on Grid 
        Forge. Check out what other GGF groups are doing in this space.
        To be done by the next call.

[Norman] Email the people involved in the Object Data Access
         Realisation to see if this effort can be picked up again.

----
 1. Agree process for Socialising standards documents.

Norman starts meeting. Socialising of the standard documents.

Dave: this came out of the last GGF - it is now time to go out to the
      wider community to solicit feedback. Can go to industry
      (database vendors), e-Science/Research community and the
      commercial community. Need to be sure to know what we want to
      find out, what type of feedback we want to get ... an email
      questionnaire is not seen as being sufficient.  Need to entice
      people to want to do this. Write an executive summary to explain
      motivation, background and current status ... what needs the
      specs are going to be meeting ... the key thing is to identify
      the people to send the questionnaire to. What do people think
      and what should we ask?

Norman: thing we would like to get out of this: more people
        participating - for them to sign up and feedback and also to
        engage communities where as yet we do not have much contact,
        e.g. the xml vendor community ... has anything happened in
        this space yet?

Susan/Amy: No. Were thinking of some groups we could contact ...

Norman: maybe should wait for the executive summary before moving on
        this.  ... what input should we be seeking?

Dave: we can ask about the general approach of the specification and
      the relevance - do we have the right interfaces? Can the
      capabilities of your product be exposed using these method?
      ... need to pool questions ... need to identify any short
      comings. We should only put about 10 questions maximum.

Simon: it depends on the context in which we ask the questions;
       whether DAIS is a mechanism of accessing data in the Grid or
       whether we present it as a general way of accessing data...

Dave: the executive summary should make the context clear ... people
      should still have the freedom to answer what they want ...

Norman: may pitch this as being a Web service orientated interface as
        opposed to a Grid service interface ...

Brian: want to solicit more than a yes/no type question and try to
       elicit constructive criticism or positive endorsement ... there
       could be a straw man in the executive summary ...

Dave: I think that would be the next stage Brian ... need to go
      through an internal review to see how people might interpret the
      questions.

Norman: if people have specific views of what should be in they should
        get in touch with Dave. We would like this process to be done
        before the next GGF.

Dave: would like people to identify communities ...

Mario: are we going to ask about the thorny issue of mappings?

Norman: for this questionnaire we should be gloss over it ...

Dave: I don't think we can gloss over it ... some of the history can
      be given in the executive summary ... I can put something in on
      mappings and people can comment about the wording ...

Norman: at the top level ok ... but not detailed questions ...

Dave: it's useful to get a view ...

Norman: the questions are not about the nature of the mappings but of
        peoples' plans and their expectations ...

Dave: functionality, details ... I'll pull something together and
      circulate something by the middle of next week ...

---
2. Agree process for logging and addressing issues in standards
   documents.

Norman: Tracking issues .. ask Mario to comment on this.

Mario: currently Grid Forge is being used for this. David Vyvyan put
       in a lot of issues for the relational spec up on Grid Forge.

Norman: ok so Grid Forge is being used ... should make people aware
        on the list that this is being used.

Mario: I will post a summary of issues to the list ...

Brian: this is one of stage of the process - have logged the issues
       and people can post comments but what is the process for
       resolving the issues?

Norman: comments should drift back to the spec team ... now that we
        have a more public logging process we should have a more
        formal process.  When the spec team makes decisions it post
        the nature of the decision.

Brian: maybe a two step process is best ... put some comments ..

Mario: in my view I think the spec authors should be responsible for
       closing issues - they should post a comment on Grid Forge and
       possibly also the mailing list. If someone feels the issue
       has not been properly addressed they can always post a 
       comment and the issue can be re-opened.
...

Norman: Mario - can you suggest what the mechanism for establishing
        process .... GGF does not have a formal process ... see what
        other groups are doing ... do this by the next call...

Susan: the OGSA group uses Grid Forge quite a bit ...

Simon: other groups deal with issues in the calls ...

Norman: Mario will post

---

 3. Agree process for finalising the mapping scenarios document
    produced for GGF11.

Need to agree a process for finishing off the mappings document. Invite
Simon to comment on this ...

Simon: have discussed this with Savas and Sastry ... keen to add other
       scenarios ... will have a call to see if this is practical
       ... to a certain extent there are diminishing returns .... need
       to do something to bring to this work to a conclusion ... need
       to do a bit more work but not a lot more.

Mario: at GGF people wanted scenarios that brought out the functional
       differences between the different mappings in the scenarios ...
       Savas said he had one ...

Simon: Malcolm brought up another scenario this morning that did this
       ... will pool these together to make sure they bring out
       functional differences and go from there ...

---
4. Agree process for focusing on open issues relating to mappings
   of DAIS specifications.

Simon: problem is relatively fundamental ... disagreement is about the
       model that sits behind WSRF that differentiates it from WS-I - do
       we then recommend different mappings for DAIS or do we push for
       changes to be made to WSRF that would remove these differences?
       ...

Norman: at the last GGF meeting there was one scenario of relevance to
        DAIS that brought out differences between the different
        mappings ...  singleton data resource ... the thought was that
        there might be an opportunity to have a meeting before the
        next WSRF meeting taking place in the UK where this might be
        discussed. However it appears that Sastry would not be able to
        make such a meeting ...

Dave: have seen response from Sastry ... will send him an email ... we
      know that he can't come but it would be good to get some input
      ... there is another Oracle person that we could bring up to
      speed and get involved.

Norman: there is some evidence that OASIS is going to address ... the
        singleton resource issue identified at GGF ... was hoping that
        we could come up with a practical mechanism - the result
        collection case before the next WSRF meeting ... happy to meet
        up with the Oracle chap coming to the WSRF meeting but we need
        to understand our own issues first ...

Simon: maybe we can do that by documenting the scenario ... not clear
       what is meant by the singleton pattern ... folks have their own
       view of what the scenario is and what the solution is ...

Susan: ... the 3rd party delivery that matters most to DAIS in
       relation to WSRF ...

Norman: that is my understanding ... can try to get a common middle
         ground that IBM and Oracle are both happy with by exploring
         this pattern ..

Susan: ... define what the singleton resource pattern might be ... and
       see how this fits in with the 3rd party delivery and try to
       feed this back to the WSRF ...

Simon: we take the issues and suggest what the solution is and use
       that as the exit strategy for the mapping documents ... some of
       these scenarios are more important to DAIS ....

Norman: we are going to try to zoom into options for handling the
        different mappings that might be used for DAIS ... do not have
        to do in a closed group of three [the authors of the mapping
        document] ... needs to be more up-front for the core DAIS
        issues...

Simon: not suggesting that this is for the mapping document
       ... distill stuff from the mapping documents and present these
       separately ... a link between the two exercises allows us to
       identify the conclusion that comes out of mapping scenarios
       ... take the scenario and propose solutions that you then show
       to people ... need arguments then to show the advantages ...

Dave: when you say "this is how we are going to solve it" - are you
      proposing a specific mapping?

Simon: there may be more than one mapping ... can blur between the
       two approaches ... we do not want to support two different
       things though...

Dave: given that GGF has nailed its colours to WSRF we need to provide
      a WSRF mapping ... and then start feeding back to OASIS ...

Simon: happy to include WSRF ... question is whether everyone else is
       happy doing this?

Norman: completing the mappings documents while the outcome of item 4
        may be a decision and not a mapping ... what we need to do is
        go through a process and document the options for DAIS ... and
        also explore whether changes to WSRF would make this any
        easier ... this may not have converged for GGF12 and the
        mappings document but not so for this discussion ...

Simon: ... but we need to start moving towards making decisions
       ... this has to be written down and not necessarily be part of
       the mappings document ...

Norman: How do we move forward with item 4? Who takes ownership of
        this?  Have two groups: the spec team and the authors of the
        mapping document ...

Simon: pick an owner but bring it to the mailing list ...

Dave: what about Savas?

Simon: I think he is happy to be involved ...

Dave: the people that looked at the mappings are the best people to
      take this forward and they can make recommendations that the
      spec team can adopt ... the spec team would welcome a firm
      decision ...

Norman: can bat the task to the Savas/Simon/Sastry team but I would
        like to join it for the purposes of item 4 ...

Simon: but I think 3 and 4 are the same thing ... I think it should be
       open.

Norman: that is why I asked people who would like to join ... would
        like to have someone that is agnostic in the solution ... not
        casting aspersions ... the role has to be changed ... no one
        else put their head over the parapet there ... token is kept
        by Simon/Savas/Sastry but I would like to be kept in the loop.

----
5. Discuss OGSA Data Services Document and relationship to
   OGSA Data Architecture activity.

Need to discuss the OGSA Data Services document in relation to the
Data Architecture effort currently taking place ...  not sure if Allen
has had a chance to speak to some of the other authors ... Susan?

Susan: I was cc'ed on his emails ...

Norman: the question is whether were the authors of the OGSA Data
        Services document are happy for it to be rolled back to the
        OGSA Data Architecture document?

Susan: did not see people objecting to this ... can try to close this
       off ... did we not discuss keeping a version of the document
       about ...?

Norman: these things do stay around ... if people are going to refer
        to one they should refer to the first one ... the second one
        was more in a state of flux ... happy to wait until Allen
        comes back ... it does not have to be closed off with any
        urgency.

---
 6. Discuss how to proceed with Object Data Access Realisation
    proposal in time for GGF12. 

None of the relevant people were at the call so Norman took an
action to email the relevant people.

----

AOB:

Susan: in the CGS calls proposed that might be able to release
       portions of a UML model for relational databases ... looking at
       this at the moment ... release a portion that DAIS needs
       ... would be very useful for everyone.

Norman: I think that would be very good.

Susan: also been looking at the XML ... may need to be some hand
       crafting to get xml ... it's XMI type format that you would get
       by default ...  looking for tools ... DAIS being able to use
       the generate xml might be under question.

...

Some discussion was had on telcon numbers to be used. Current number
was seen as possibly being too expensive for US callers.

Some of the discussion of composite requests - would be good to try
and get a community practice document ... maybe this could be based
on the ogsa-dai approach if nothing else is forthcoming.

Brian: discussing with Neil Chue Hong about the files BOF ... should
       we report at the next call ... do you want a status report at
       the next meeting?

Norman thought that this would be appropriate.

----

