DAIS Telcon Minutes - 15/02/05
==============================

Chair: Dave Pearson
Note taker: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
-------
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Simon Laws, IBM
	Norman Paton, Manchester University
	Tom Roney, NCSA
	Susan Malaika, IBM

Agenda:

    CGS update
    Preparation for  GGF13

Actions
-------

[Dave] Pick out OGSA sessions of interest to DAIS at GGF 13 and ask
       for DAIS volunteer to capture any issues of relevance to DAIS.

[Dave] Invite individuals to the second DAIS session that might have a
       view relating to what the relationship between a WS-Resource
       and the underlying resource should be.

---

Preparation for GGF13:

   - Specification documents in the process of being updated, 
     smallish scale changes, tightening of the language. Also,
     some reorganisation which should improve legibility. 

     Two main outstanding issues:

	- Provision of top level I/O operations.
          Proposal posted to the list. It looks as though adopting 
          this proposal would simplify the WSDL. 

	  Hope that the specs will include the top level operations.
          Not certain that the WSDL will be modified in time.

	- The semantics of the relationship between the resource and
	  the WS-Resource. There has been a posting about this to the
	  DAIS list and some follow-up discussion. This issue will not
	  be resolved in the DAIS specs for GGF 13 but it would be
	  good to start a wider discussion about this at GGF13.

   - For GGF13 have scheduled two DAIS sessions:

      - An update to the community session starting at 9am on the 15th
        March. Give high level summary presentation of the
        specifications and then give people an opportunity to ask
        questions.  Possible speakers:

	   - Core spec: Mario.
	   - Relational spec: Susan.
	   - XML spec: Amy.
	   - Introduction and relationship with other groups: Dave.

        It should be made clear to those attending that this is going 
	to an informational session.

      - Issues session at 15:30 on the 16th of March. This session 
        would cover:

        - Discussion of what the relationship between the WS-Resource
          and the underlying resource is. This should be of interest
          to a community wider than just DAIS. Susan will prepare a
          set of slides to set the scene. Dave will invite people to
          comment on this issue.

	- Discussion of things that have come out at GGF 13: specific
	  issues that have arisen from the OGSA WG discussions, the
	  data profile work, etc.  Dave will ask for DAIS volunteers
	  to attend the OGSA sessions and bring back issues that
	  relate to the DAIS work.  Volunteers to meet up before this
	  session and to collect these issues to finalise a set of
	  slides to be presented. Could have a talk about the OGSA
	  Data profile in reserve in case there is not enough input.

CGS Update:

    - It appears that there not going to have many people at GGF 13
      that are active in the CGS WG or the DMTF.

    - The model for relational databases could be passed from the CGS
      to the DMTF.

    - The CGS has been doing a lot of bridging work between GGF WGs
      and the DMTF. The future role of the CGS WG though is not clear.
      The CGS session on the 14th March will try to determine what the
      WG is going to do in the future. Will try to get OGSA people
      involved. Fred Maciel has been very useful in establishing a
      relationship with OGSA. One of the possibilities is for the CGS
      WG to become a RG and then match make between GGF groups and the
      DMTF but then these groups would work directly with the DMTF as
      opposed to using the CGS WG as an intermediary.

    - The DAIS model paper could be formally submitted to the CGS WG,
      who would then pass it on to the DMTF. The CGS WG would then
      work with the DMTF. However, if the CGS WG were to fold then
      DAIS could work with the DMTF directly as opposed to bringing
      the work back in to DAIS. 

Try to have another telcon on the 2nd of March at 4pm GMT to:

    - See if any issues have arisen out of the OGSA face-to-face
      that is currently taking place in preparation for GGF 13.
    - See if anyone has feedback on the DAIS specs which will
      be out by then.






