DAIS Telcon 09/11/04
====================

Chair  : Norman Paton
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
-------
         Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
         Norman Paton, University of Manchester
         Simon Laws, IBM
	 Leon Guzenda, Objectivity
	 Susan Malaika, IBM
	 Greg Riccardi, Florida State University
	 Allen Luniewski, IBM

Proposed Agenda:
----------------

1. Contributing to the Naming Design Team
2. Contributing to the Data Design Team on Data Movement

Actions:
-------

[Norman] Email office@ggf.org to point that we have an on-going
	 activity with CGS - hence we are surprised that this effort
	 is listed as being closed. Cc relevant people in.

[Simon] Wrap up the mappings document and submit it (pass on to Norman).
        To be done by the end of November.

[Simon] Post a tracker and a proposal to go out to the dais-wg mailing
	list about the WSRF embodiments that could be adopted by DAIS
	to initiate a discussion. To be done by the 16th of Nov.

[Susan] To post a reminder to the DAIS list about the OGSA naming
	effort/telcon and put a pointer to the WSRF embodiments
	document and hint that there is going be more discussion about
	this on the dais mailing list.

[Norman] See if a new telcon number can be sorted out for future DAIS calls.

[Susan] To report back on the currently open issues on the relational
        spec for the next telcon.

[Amy] To report back on the currently open issues on the XML spec for
        the next telcon.

[Simon] To report back on the currently open issues on the core spec
        for the next telcon.

[Spec Team] Have a straw-man proposal on a top level operation for the 
       next telcon.

On-going Actions
----------------

[Dave P.] To draft and distribute a new version of the socialising document.

[Susan]   To email to Dave contacts in XQJ and XQuery groups.

[Norman]  Prompt Thomas regarding a posting to the list about the Object
	  Data Access document.

	  Thomas was prompted but nothing has appeared on the list as yet.

Dead Actions
------------

[Norman] To recommend that Simon reports back at the next call.

Simon reported back on this call.

---

1. Contributing to the Naming Design Team

The OGSA naming people have had telcons but these are relatively late
for UK.Awkward time for telcons for Europeans probably because of the
times. May be due to the fact that they are trying to fit in
Japan. Simon has done some stuff on naming for OGSA-DAI but not for
DAIS. There have been a number of concerns: interaction of the naming
with the infrastructure - the mapping; also how the naming interacts
with the underlying data resource names.

Need to see how DAIS can keep in touch with the OGSA naming effort and
influence where appropriate. Could use the OGSA Data Design Team but
this was thought to be too circuitous despite the fact that Andrew
Grimshaw is also involved in this effort as well as leading the
naming.

The question was raised about releasing the OGSA-DAI naming document -
however this does not have DAIS content so it may not add much.

Susan pointed out that the naming people are having an OGSA
face-to-face in the East Coast in December.

Allen and Dave Berry are more involved in the naming scheme through
the data design effort - can ask them to keep us informed of what is
going on in that space.

Simon will keep track of what is going on in the OGSA naming effort.
Simon will also send the OGSA-DAI naming document to Dave Berry to
inform him of what some of the data related issues are.

The OGSA naming folks are having a telcon on the 15th of
November. Susan will confirm details on the DAIS list.  Allen will
attend the call and will feedback anything of interest relating to
DAIS.

3. Contributing to the Data Design Team on Data Movement

Allen reports back that not much has happened.

Simon adds that Andrew Grimshaw and Mark Morgan have come up with a
context space and file access and some effort has been expanded on
metadata.

As yet no straw-man OGSA data architecture is in place. The intent for
this item had originally been to discuss data movement in the context
of such a document being available. However, it looks like everybody
who's involved in this effort is too busy and no document has yet been
produced.

4. Mappings document

The intent is to try to move the mappings document to be a GGF
informational document.  Simon has been looking at the WSRF
embodiments document following on from GGF12 - names or identities for
data resources in services while being consistent with WSRF. One of
the embodiments presented looks promising (number 4). This embodiment
allows us to pass the identity in the body and in the header. The
implementation then chooses which one to use.

[
For the embodiments document see (aka WS-ResourceProperties document):
http://docs.oasis-open.org/wsrf/2004/06/wsrf-WS-ResourceProperties-1.2-draft-04.pdf
]

This embodiment should be presented as a possible solution. However,
the mappings document should not be a proposals document. If we are in
a position to make a proposal then this should be sent to the DAIS
list or presented as a short document - this is a spec issue. The
mapping documents should be wrapped up as a discussion document and
then any proposal should be sent to the list. This also serves to give
feedback to the WSRF group.

Susan mentions that the WSRF group had explicitly asked for feedback.

Simon will post feedback to the WSRF folks about the embodiments
document - in particularly they wanted feedback on the fourth
option. The WSRF folks want feedback asap.

5. Update on socialising

Dave was supposed to draft an update - has not been done.  The hope
that Dave has been socialising at the Enterprise Grid Alliance.

AOB
---

Mario mentioned that a more permanent telcon number is required for
DAIS - the old number retired with Brian Collins. Simon Laws had
kindly provided his number for this meeting but this was a one
off. Norman took an action on finding an alternative number.


The proposed agenda for the next telcon:

1. Review known spec issues
2. Review a design for a top level access operation

also try to

3. Discuss WSRF embodiments.

Brian has closed several issues on the relational spec.

Simon, Amy and Susan to report back at the next telcon on the issues
on the present specs.

---
