DAIS Telcon - 12/04/05
======================

Chair:      Norman Paton
Note Taker: Mario Antonioletti

Attendees:
	   Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	   Thomas Soddemann, RGZ
	   Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	   Savas Parastatidis, University of Newcastle
	   Susan Malaika, IBM
	   Allen Luniewski, IBM
	   Simon Laws, IBM
	   Dave Pearson, Oracle

Agenda:

	Mappings of DAIS Specifications (Discuss
	Proposal from GGF13 Session 2) 

Actions:

[Simon] Post note to list on refined GGF13 proposal and relationship to 
        mapping approach (4).

[Norman] Seek to ensure that relevant OGSA/WSRF people are following the 
         process.

---

Start with a top level discussion about options and gradually progress
to discuss the GGF proposals that has been posted to the list. Then
discuss on how we proceed.

Start from the postings made to the DAIS mailing list:

http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/dais-wg/2005/04/msg00003.html

Also:

http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/dais-wg/2005/04/msg00001.html
http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/dais-wg/2005/04/msg00002.html

Hope to reach a resolution by discussion and consensus.

There are four possibilities for DAIS:

      1] Use WSRF for all types of resource.
      2] Use no WSRF at all.
      3] Use WSRF only for some resources.
      4] Use a twin tracks approach.

Mario: At GGF WSRF seemed very credible but there was no major opposition
       present.

Norman: but the conclusion was not to use a WSRF only solution - (3)
        seemed to be the preferred option

Susan: I had a very extensive discussions with Savas before the meeting
       to take his point of view into account.

Savas: ... but my twin track approach was not really discussed.

...

Norman: For (3) is it desirable to have a subset that is only
        dependent on WS-I?

Susan: is that the conduit only bit?

Norman: suggesting the mapping into portTypes that Simon described is
	not necessarily the one that we would use. In approach (3) we
	have: three type of resources and their mapping to services
	.....  the type 2 would not have a mapping to WSRF.

Susan: if this will make more people use it then that would be a good
       approach.  As long as it does not make it any harder to write
       the spec.

Norman: There will be a core spec that will only provide access to
	type 2 resources and another one that does all 3 resources.

Mario: what does that do to interoperability?

Norman: In the core all type 2 implementations would be
	interoperable. There is only one way of doing each thing.  You
	then need to know if you are talking to a resource that
	implements part of or the full specification.

	There seems to be tentative support for having a section that
	only has WS-I dependencies if it will get more people on board
	who might not use the spec otherwise.  There are some UK
	e-Science projects that fall under this category.

Mario: what about Microsoft and Oracle?

Savas: a core that is not dependent on WSRF will make it more
       palatable for companies like Microsoft and Oracle.

Susan: At the second DAIS session in GGF13 we had OGSA and WSRF people
       in the room. The key point that we got across was that DAIS is
       not representing some of the resources in the database or
       managing them - but is about providing access to these. So,
       that's why they agreed that not everything could be represented
       by WSRF. I did not think though that a particular solution
       came out.

Norman: but a proposal has gone out. Services to represent type (3)
	resources are identical to those in DAIS. In type (2) the
	naming scheme is in the body and does not use the WSRF
	lifetime management - resource names are in the message body
	and WSRF lifetime management is not used

Savas: if this group accepts the fact that there are going to be two
       worlds out there - a core WS world with which everyone is happy
       with and extensions that not everybody is happy with, then the
       functionalities that use these extension that are not
       implemented will simply be lost. What if there was an approach
       if everyone had access to this functionality in a different
       way?

       The idea would be that all the functionality that DAIS wants to
       make available is done only with the WS-I based specifications
       with the proviso that there would be a route for WSRF for those
       wanting to use WSRF.

Norman: does that not raise interoperability problems?

Savas: yes, but if the functionality is there then that will also be
       a problem ....

Norman: let's push on the GGF 13 proposal and then you can detail a
	mapping for possibility (4).

Susan: If we go through Simon's note:

 http://www-unix.gridforum.org/mail_archive/dais-wg/2005/04/msg00002.html


       The scenario is where you say he conflatated the two portTypes.

       There are some service templates - you would get properties of
       the service conduit and could get information about the resources
       that would come out of the CIM model.

Norman: only in the relational case.

Susan: as they have not done XML yet. The split then is quite natural.
       Then you have the messages targeted at the conduit portion,
       you have all the properties, you can destroy the conduits.  You
       can have messages targeted at the resources themselves and you
       can get the properties and you have an SQLExecute with messages
       targeted at a service. Then there is the ability to create a
       result set rather than execute the query and then there is a
       generic response ... those are the operations for the combined
       conduit and resource type 2 resource.

       The second type of service would expose the properties of a
       rowset created by the previous portType. You would then have
       messages to get access to the resource set.

       Then there is a scenario to use the services. Can deploy,
       configure, get the properties, the data, get a results set.

       Finally there are some points for further discussion.

       You can model the type 3 resources under the conduit as type 2
       resources. Things could be laid out differently.

       Can express properties of the conduit and capabilities over and
       above the WSDL.

Norman: in essence the properties of the conduit help what task -
	service selection?

Susan: could put info in a registry and ask questions of the service.

Norman: it could expose properties of the underlying resources and the
	service

Susan: in the proposal to the mailing it would, as it combines the
       conduit with the resources. If you were to split these then
       that would not be the case.

Norman: if someone wanted to use a resource you may ask questions of
	the potential interaction they could have with that service.
	You could also ask questions about the underlying resource.
	You could interrogate the resource or you could use a
	registry.  The conduit has local metadata properties of that
	conduit - like a local registry. When you have metadata from
	the local resource or somewhere else there is also a question
	about the coherency and quantity of the metadata available
	....

Susan: in the spec you would have to be very clear. if you split this
       then you might only get the appropriate metadata from a single
       source ....

...

Susan: the points raised is that when you create a result set you
       could give it to the database to manage or you could give it to
       DAIS to manage. In the first instance you will give it to DAIS
       to manage.

       We have a document with many resources ....

*Simon joins*

Susan continues going over Simon's point for discussion.

...

Norman: the suggestion that one has separate portTypes for type 1, 2
	and 3 resources.

Simon: not trying to imply that all of these messages would live in
       the same portType.

Norman: there are 2 things we would like to clarify:

	which information is available from a type 1 resource and how
	that compares to what is available through a type 2 resource.
	Is it the complete set or a sub set?

	Separating type 2 and seeing if there is felt to be support
	for a proposal to have a subset that does not have the WSRF
	dependency if that increase the number of adopters.

Simon: type 2 does not have a WSRF dependency at the moment.

Norman: the proposal is slightly more lumping rather than separating
        at the moment.

Simon: you would like to see what the portTypes look like?

Norman: yes

Simon: that is reasonable.

Norman: So, Savas wanted to make an approach to mapping approach 4.

Savas: it's not exactly sharing messages. The proposal is very similar
       to how execution services are being designed - work being done
       by Steve Newhouse and Andrew Grimshaw for submission at the
       next GGF. A service is a container of resources. The approach
       they are taking is that you talk with a service and the
       resources are named. You use abstract name for the resources
       and there is a way of resolving those names into WSRF EPRs if
       you want to and from then onwards you can treat the interaction
       with the resources as WSRF. However, the service also supports
       interaction that do not require WSRF.

       In DAIS there would be no need to distinguish between type 2
       and type 3 resources.  

Norman: so you could send a messages to a data service you would send
	a SQL query with an optional abstract name and you could
	optionally get the EPR and use that afterwards ...

Savas: ok, so you are assuming that many data resource could be
       accessible through the services. You could send the SQL
       statement and then you could send an abstract name. You could
       ask for the results to be kept at the service and the you could
       do things with those results kept at the service. If you want
       to manage the lifetime in a WSRF way, the service will support
       a resolve method the abstract name can be converted to an EPR.

Simon: I've talked to Savas as well so I have an understanding of his
       method. The resolver could sit happily on service A and provide
       that type of functionality. The question pushes down on the
       things that people talked about that were WSRF specific that
       could be pulled into the conduit. Savas is saying that
       everything could be pulled under the conduit. We would have to
       make sure that the lifetime was covered.

Savas: for the non-WSRF you would need to define explicit lifetime
       messages.

Norman: questions like how do we construct message bodies that type 2
	and 3 looks pretty consistent in the GGF13 proposition would
	come up against issues that are very like this. The GGF 13
	proposal is something rather like Savas' proposal but where
	you are told what to use for a particular resource.

Savas: I'm saying that the functionality will be the same but you will
       have to provide something in DAIS that replicates WSRF
       functionality.

Norman: I think we are on the same page.

	The pros of this approach is that everyone can use whatever
	they like, have different capabilities.

	The con is that individuals implementing the DAIS specs end up
	with two routes in and we have to decide which ones are
	optional and mandatory. There is then a case of publicising
	this to a potential client.

Susan: are there considerations for naming?

Simon: we need to know how to write or handle names in both cases.

Norman: My feeling is that the the blend of mapping approach 4 and
	mapping approach 3 are not miles away from each other. It's
	just approach 3 has a MUST which is not in approach
	4. Approach 4 gives you an alternative ....

Savas: as a result it allows those that do not support WSRF can now
       implement the spec.

Norman: inching towards a smaller decision. Can discuss this with
	stake holders. How do we proceed?

Susan: need to do a sketchy write up.

Simon: can add Savas' model to this ...

Susan: would you have alternatives or options?

Norman: it is reasonable to put both these options into the same
        document - given that you have these collection of switches
        you can use whichever you want or you can pre-set those
        switches.

*Dave Pearson joins*

      Norman provides a brief summary for Dave.

      
Norman: did you have any views on the proposal?

Dave: still struggling with what interoperability between WS-I and
      WSRF is?

....

Savas: if you implement a service with only WS-I everyone can talk to
       you. If you use WSRF then any extra functionality then you can
       only use that if you use WSRF. That is not to say that WSRF
       does not comply with WS-I.

....

Dave: my view is you use WSRF, mainly for result sets, because it is a
      data resource and the database is a WSRF resource then you are
      saying you use WSRF only full stop.

Norman: if you take the proposal that was circulated strictly as
	described you are using WSRF. A small modification would
	involve separate portTypes for type 1,2 and 3. This allows us
	to pull out type 2 so that it only has dependencies on WS-I so
	that you would not have need for WSRF. You would however not
	get the factory pattern

Dave: what are the implications on tooling? How will the tooling know
      whether you are interacting with a type 2 or 3.

Savas: in what I suggested there is no distinction between 2 and 3 it
       will all look the same. If semantically you try to send the
       wrong message then that will be dealt by the
       implementation. This could also be applied in the WSRF case -
       no distinction between type 2 and 3.

Norman: yes, they could always be represented the same way. 

Savas: to move forward we document this but we need WSDL - happy for
       the non-WSRF to case to work with a simple implementation to
       test the idea to see what the portTypes look like.

Norman: very happy for people to do experiments.

Dave: provided there is a time scale ...

Norman: trying to progress quite rapidly. The next call is in 2 weeks
        on this topic.

Savas: offered to get together with Dave Snelling to discuss this.

Norman: That would be very useful.

	Simon will adjust the proposal to incorporate Savas' ideas.

Simon: produce a new one - leave the other for historical reasons.

Norman: then pass that out to the list. Once that is done then we can
	discuss it. We should also explicitly bat a reference to that
	proposal to the OGSA list for discussion.

Dave: the time to bat something the OGSA list when we are confident
      about things else the control may pass over to the OGSA list.
      We should get the OGSA team.

Norman: will try to invite comment from a smaller set of people.

	Hopefully these things can be done quite quickly and then
	widen the discussion. Savas raised the issue about having a
	meeting in London.

Simon: happy to contribute WSDL to that effort. 

Dave: what if Savas and Simon do some work and if it's not possible
      in London to set up a web conference or AG?

Savas: we could do that but its replication of effort.

...

Dave: if you are going to have a meeting in London, let me know and I
      can arrange for an Oracle office to be used.
