DAIS Telcon 01/04/04
====================

Chair: Simon Laws (Dave Pearson was driving and did not have the agenda 
       in front of him)
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:

        Mario Antonioletti, EPCC.
        Simon Laws, IBM.
        Thomas Soddemann, RZG.
	Dave Pearson, Oracle.
        Savas Parastatidis, Newcastle University.
        Amy Krause, EPCC.
        Brian Collins, IBM.
        Vijay Dialany, Southampton University.
	Patrick Dantressangle, IBM.

Agenda
------
    - Actions from the previous telcon
    - Report on spec authors meeting held in Manchester
    - Status report on parallel activities:
          - Files
          - OO databases
          - CIM/DMTF
          - OGSA Data Services activities(part of OGSA-WG led by Dave Berry)
	  - Progress report on mapping
    - Update on OGSA Data Services (owned in DAIS-WG led by Allen Luniewski)
    - Process and time scales for GGF11
    - AoB

New Actions:
------------

[Simon] Ensure that DAIS liaises with other GGF WGs in a systematic
        fashion.

Actions Resulting from previous Meeting:
----------------------------------------

[Norman] Inform the data area chairs to inform and discuss on how to
         proceed with regards to File/OO database access.

	 on-going.
	 
Dead Actions
------------

[Thomas & Norman] Interact to come up with a page description to scope
                  out a OO database characterisation.

         Telcon will happen in mid-April. Will be advertised. 

[Brian/Neil/Ally] To interact with each other with regards to coming
                  up with a file access BOF for GGF11.

         Had a telcon with Neil - have produced a draft charter to
	 a limited distribution list to iron bugs. Have got in touch
	 with the data area chair. No deadline for submission at the
	 GGF web site as yet. Goes to the data area chair which
	 then it is sent to the relevant WGs. Dave suggests e-mailing
	 Stacy Bruno to find out about dead lines as well as keeping
	 the Data Area chairs in touch.

[Norman] Set up a telcon to discuss a telcon for object database
         access... establish a time and then publicise for people who
         are interested.

	 done - been set up for mid-April.

------

Simon:

Report on the meeting about last week. Norman produced some notes that
Sue distributed today ... go through the main items.  Notes are based
on the agenda.

The document structure - discussed changing the title of the documents
to have a WS prefix. Would be interested in hearing people's view as
to whether this is a good/bad thing to do.

Also proposal to further split the realisations a bit
further. Relational would spawn off rowset and we would invent
something similar for XML, itemlists.

Had a session about properties and terms. Differentiating the
properties and terms versus the behaviour of the service. Also Allen's
OGSA Data Service does not have a Data Description portType.

Data access splits down into the messages that we are going to define
and the terms that control the behaviour of those of those services.
Discussed the structure of the messages such as describing the
language and the type of the results that will be coming back. Talked
about the placement of the terms in the base document or the
realisation documents.

Did not say much about factories explicitly - the OGSA Data Service
doc states that given a factory interface we can have a factory slot
where you can produce new data.

Brian spent some time talking about new data. Brian has done a piece
of work to see how the different specs relate which arose from the
management point of view. Presented as a set of slides which should be
made more available.

Talked about mappings - describe things generally and then state how
these general concepts may be mapped.

Talked about timings.

This is not intended to be an exclusive process. The meeting was for
people that are interested in writing stuff ... you can join in if you
want to.

Mario: how do people feel about changing the name to Ws-

Savas: seems reasonable

Simon: Brian anything else about files?

Brian: not really. There are other groups in GGF that are interested
       in files which we need to contact to make sure that we do not
       overlap.  Have not started soliciting input as yet ...

Simon: OO realisation - Thomas?

Thomas: did not do anything last week and Norman is away on holiday
        now. Will talk to Norman next week and st out an agenda for
        the telcon.

Simon: CIM/DMTF ... Norman and Susan wrote the scenarios document
       ... assume that is carrying on. There are other groups we
       should interact - Metadata, Information dissemination,
       transaction BOF ... need to decide who is going to liaise with
       these people ... we should try to be systematic about talking
       to these groups ... mario this is worth noting ...

Mario: there is also GRAAP ...

Simon: yes GRAAP ... they seem to be fairly active in their mailing
       list at the moment.

       There is also the OGSA data services. Mario would you care to
       say something about this?

Mario: attended the data services telcon that took place yesterday.
       Currently considering some straw men proposals, see:

https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewCategory.php?group_id=42&category_id=708

       I took down some notes that I can distribute if anyone is
       interested. Have passed these on to Dave Berry who is leading
       the effort - not sure what he's going to do with them. Andrew
       Grimshaw appeared to be of the opinion to consider things 
       without taking into account what is already out there. Proposals
       pulling in slightly different directions at the moment. Dave
       Berry has set up a fairly aggressive time scale. They have 
       another telcon in two weeks time. In the meantime they will
       be looking at the OGSA Data Services use cases document to
       derive input for their straw men. It's too early to say
       what the impact on DAIS is going to be.

....

Simon: Savas can you say anything on the mapping work?

Savas: we have a telcon tomorrow. Each one of us has a section that
       they are working on ... hoped to have something by this week
       but that's not going to happen but it will be probably happen
       next week ... from a suggestion from Mario we are now working
       on an extended abstract for the AHM 2004 to give a paper there.

Simon: should take a slot on one of these calls once we have put the
       document out... process and time scales for GGF11. Is anyone
       else intending to contribute to the specifications? So far have
       me, Mario.  Amy, Susan, Brian and Norman ... anyone else?

*silence*

Take that as a no. I assume that people will be willing to comment
though?

Savas: absolutely.

Simon: is there anything else that we should discuss? ... AOB?

*silence*

end of meeting (quickest ever :-) ).