DAIS Telcon 24/08/04
====================

Chair  : Norman Paton
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
-------
         Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
         Simon Laws, IBM
	 Allen Luniewski, IBM
	 Dave Pearson, Oracle
         Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	 Amy Krause, EPCC
	 Savas Parastatidis, University of Newcastle
         Susan Malaika, IBM
	 Thomas Soddeman, Rechenzentrum der MPG am MPI fuer Plasmaphysik

Agenda:
------

0. Minutes/Actions.
1. Object Data Access Services (Norman Paton)
2. Discussion of GridForge Issues for WS-DAI Specification (Simon Laws)
3. Discussion of GridForge Issues for WS-DAI Realisations (Brian 
   Collins/Amy Krause/Susan Malaika)

Actions:
--------

[Dave]   Distribute the executive summary document together with Mario's 
         comments and try to attribute where the document excerpts came 
         from.
[Norman] Arrange a get together at GGF12 for those interested in an object
         data service realisation.

---

1. Object Data Access Services

   None of the relevant people were present at the beginning of the
   call so this got relegated towards the back end of the call.

2. Discussion of GridForge Issues for WS-DAI Specification (Simon Laws)

   Going through the spec and making updates. Have sent out a list of
   the status of the current issues logged in Grid Forge.

   Going through these issues.

   Issue 480 is about concurrency.
   Have dropped this and will specify a set of faults of this.

   Issue 932 is about the model for derived data service or what we
   call indirect access.

   Will be addressed by putting a comment in the relevant section.

   Issue 933 is about lifetimes, comment about the lifetime and the
   relationship between the web service and the data resource. When a
   query is sent in there will be data hanging around that will have
   some sort of lifetime.

   Have added 4 elements to describe the different possibilities
   regarding the lifetime of this data. Talked originally about
   allowing the consumer to vary this but not for this spec.

   Issue 934: in the specification we propose a way of allowing
   different response formats. We recognise that other people are
   doing this, e.g. the WS-Agreement people. Will leave this as an
   outstanding issue for GGF12 and then see if GRAAP have a solution
   post GGF12.

   Issue 935 is about the relationship of DAIS specs with other specs,
   this is repeated in issue 971.

   Leave this as ongoing. Other specs are coming to light, e.g. GSM,
   which we need to keep an eye on.

   Issue 936 no faults in the GGF11 spec 

   Will add some and close the issue.

Simon: are faults going to go in the GGF12 version of the XML spec?

Amy: yes.

   The data management stuff is on-going.

   Issue 938: the document now contains some MUSTs and SHOULDs.

   This needs needs to be reviewed.

Norman: in terms of faults ... these are usually associated with
        operations ... what do faults mean in relation to the base
        spec?

Simon: the faults sections in the mapping part said there were no
       faults specified in the base specifications ... need to say
       where faults will have an impact ... to do with behavioural
       properties..


Norman: so you are describing the types of faults that might be
        produced?  ... could define faults in relation to the base
        operations ...

Simon: could take the view that all faults should operate on all
       messages ... we need to discuss which faults appear generally
       and describe them in the base spec ... some decision making
       required ..

Norman: the suggestion is that faults are added and the issue can be
        closed ...

Simon: maybe we need to create the proposition ... close the existing
       issue and add an item on the fault proposition ... will make a
       note of what the general faults and question whether that is
       the right thing to do.

...

   Issue 968: people were unhappy about a data resource definition.

   We don't have a better one as yet. Propose that will leave that as
   on-going while the data design effort goes on.


   There's an issue about establishing the equivalence of data service
   and data resource.

   It sounds like a higher level issue than just for data. Have moved
   this to a pending state. Will not do anything explicit about that.

   Somebody raised the issue about appending metadata to data service.
   We envisage though that this will be done through a metadata
   service or through a registry. Talking about this kind of thing in
   the data design effort.

  Issue 972: should dais expose elements from CIM?

  Have not talked about that so have left as on-going

  Issue 977: disconnected data sets

  Not clear exactly what that meant. Presume that means taking data out
  of a data resource, making changes and putting it back in.

Norman: let's imagine a result set, this can still be in the database
        and another possibility is that this is in memory and there is
        no underlying thing managing it. Does it make any difference?
        Can the service handle both of those cases? You look at the
        behavioural properties and know how this will behave. The
        client should not care. We should be able to handle both of
        these cases. Is there some consequence of accessing that
        data. You want to ensure that you have told the user enough
        about this so when the user sends a request they will know
        what this means.

        ...

        You could envisage implementations of your service that are
        handled in different ways may have implications on the
        semantics.

Dave: this is going to have an impact when you try to do data
       integration.

Susan: when people talk about disconnected data they usually envisage
       a different language as well ... like check in, check
       out. Check out to make it disconnected and check in when you
       want to put the data back in. Those interfaces are not there
       when it is not disconnected data.

Norman: maybe there is a useful scenario here that we can use to see
        if behavioural descriptions can be used for this kind of
        scenarios.  The way to address this is to examine a couple of
        issues.

Savas: I agree with Susan the idea about ADO.Net you get an idea of
       the data ... the underlying infrastructure has an understanding
       of where the data came from. The object itself knows how the
       updates have to be done on the original data resource when the
       disconnected data set is sent back to it.

Susan: in implementation this can happen on the client or on the
       server...  do this for performance reasons, you work locally...

Savas: but because it is disconnected other issues like concurrency
       come into play ....

Simon: have that issue in the indirect method ... can ask for a
       particular service and ask for a given interface and the
       behavioural properties that you set that affect that behaviour
       that it will exhibit. ...  we have not thought about specifying
       the interface based on whether it is connected or disconnected
       or not.

Susan: you are not using SQL or XPath ... you are using a different
       manipulation language ... we have not described something
       else..

Simon: but the spec allows for it...

Norman: Two issues:

	- what impact should disconnectedness have on the spec and how
	  you might handle this and what the behavioural properties
	  are.

	- what is happening behind the scenes ... etc..

we should define how this relates to the spec and take some scenarios,
the effectiveness of the behavioural properties.

Simon: will write some notes and send them out ...

Susan: the term disconnected is not only as is used as in English but
       also an implementation from Microsoft.

Norman: what is the analogue in JDBC?

Susan: webrowset and things like that ... we have not talked about the
       actual interfaces.

Simon: that is the end of the issues. There are some issues that have
       arisen from the other specs. Will not talk about this on this
       call but would like to talk about the "primitive data access".
       Were going to put something on the spec or just write it as
       an issue?

Norman: write up as an issue with a view for a future discussion.

Simon: Amy I was going to give you an example of an XML extension type?

Amy: in the XPath the version was just an enumeration ... you said
     that it should be an extension.


Norman: For the relational spec all the issues are closed on Grid
	Forge.  Should get Brian to send a summary to the list that
	the issues have been closed ...

        One open XML issue.

Amy: that will be closed ... the inconsistency in the naming of
     factories ... this is now in line with the relational spec.

...

Norman: missing the people to discuss item 1.

Dave: could try to do something at GGF. 

Thomas: I will be at GGF.

Norman: I will send round another email to see if something can be
	done at GGF.


AOB
---

Dave: have circulated a revised executive summary, looking for names
      to distribute this document to.  Worth at looking at Mario's
      comments as these are commenting on excerpts that were taken
      from current version of documents.

Susan: are the informational documents not supposed to be snapshots?

Dave: these documents may be snapshots and Mario questioned some of the
      things that were taken from informational documents ... the 
      informational documents should perhaps be updated ...

Susan: are they supposed to be updated?

Norman: the documents are the draft specs ... 

Dave: yes. have taken words from the draft specifications and if these
      need to be changed ...

Susan: I was taking documents that were not the specifications ..

Susan: sent you an email Dave suggesting a structural change to the
       document ...

Dave: will look at that and try to take that into account ...

Susan: put some of the questions ahead of the text ...

Mario: charter?

Norman: have updated it on the web ... 

Mario: should the mailing list not be sent a copy of this?

Norman: have already mailed a copy of this?

Dave: why not send out a pointer?

Norman: I will do that ...

There were some other AOB discussion I did not log:

 - Discussion of logistics for GGF12.
 - Discussion of the mapping document for GGF12.
 - Discussion of naming.