DAIS Telcon 20/05/04
====================

Chair: Dave Pearson
Minutes: Mario Antonioletti

Present:
	Mario Antonioletti, EPCC
	Norman Paton, University of Manchester
	Simon Laws, IBM
	Brian Collins, IBM
	Dave Pearson, Oracle
	Amy Krause, EPCC
	Susan Malaika, IBM

 Agenda:

     Actions from the previous telcon
     Document Issues for GGF11
     AoB

New Actions:
------------

[Norman] The deliverable in the charter will mention what we intend 
         to do with composite request framework task.

Actions Resulting from previous Meetings:
-----------------------------------------

[Simon] Document the DAIS folks that are liaising with other GGF WGs.

        Have talked to Brian. We will do something.

Dead Actions
------------

[Steve] Send Amy some words about removing document from a collection
        by using an XPath expression for possible inclusion in the XML
        realisation.

	This was done.

[Dave] Email Greg and Malcolm to determine a time when they might be
       able to join a telcon in order to see how to take the composite
       request framework forward.

       Have been emailed again. Have not had a response.

----- 

Question as to whether anything is going to happen with the composite
request framework task. This is affecting when the modified DAIS
charter is submitted to GGF.

Norman suggests that it is taken out of the charter as there is a
deliverable associated with it.

Mario: if we take it out of the charter we can still produce a document
       - right?

Dave: that was what I was thinking.

Norman takes an action to put some suitable in the charter regarding
this task.

Dave asks Simon to summarise on the work that has been done on the
core spec.

Simon: I currently have the token for the core spec. Mario put in some
       comments which I am addressing. Dealing with some of the
       properties. Have removed what was in management and will refer
       to WSDM. ... need to talk about the realisation documents.

Dave asks Brian to talk about the relational document.

We've had a number of comments back from Norman, which Susan has
addressed and has updated the status and abstract section of the
document. We had an invalid reference to WebRowSet namespace that
Susan picked up. The SQL2003 spec is now in place and work is complete
on that. The 2007 spec is now being worked on. Brian thanks Susan.

There are few more areas that Brian has picked up on. Has gone through
the WSDL and compared it with the spec as a few things have changed
... do not want to deal with details in this call. Have changed the
WSDL in the document ... how does this get put on the corresponding
WSDL files?

...

Dave: I think modifying it in the document and later migrating this to
      the WSDL files is the logical way to do it.

Simon: are we going to release the xsd and WSDL files?

Norman: there is no specific reason to do this ... these are not
        deliverables ... we can put the full xml up on the site at
        some later point.

Simon: will need to update the xsd and WSDL files later with what
       actually ends up in the documents.  Are you happy with the way
       it fits together?

Brian: I can see what needs changing ... can re-write sections ...
       happy to do deletes ... but consolidated forward and reverse to
       be cursor direction ... changed some of the names ... only
       other thing is that printing the WSDL out in landscape mode
       makes it more readable ...  I'm going with that at the moment
       ...

Simon: I could go with that .....

Brian: fairly straightforward to do ... it takes less words...

Dave: we are not going to fall foul of GGF document submission process
      are we?

Norman: we may ...

Brian: there were a few point from Norman's comments ... not to make
       SQLCommunicationsAccess be mandatory ... that makes sense ...

... 
Other comments about the relational document draft spec were addressed.
(these were kind of minutiae so have not documented).

 - Sending factory operations to the access interfaces in diagrams.
 - SQLRowsetFactory is in the wrong place in the document.
 - Placing XPath notation to describe xml fragments not there in line
   with the other specs.
...

Assumption is that the properties are xml schema fragments and hence
these are not mapping dependent.

Brian will email the relational document who will make a brief
consistency check between all the documents before submitting them to
GGF.

Discussion about versioning of the document.

Amy talks about the XML Realisation.

I currently have the write token. Have had comments from Mario and
Norman.  Have been writing the WSDL at the same time as updating the
document which has brought up further issues. Trying to resolve issues
and tidy up the document.  Will send something out something tonight.

The WSDL makes sense but there is a lot of it for the XML spec.
Need to separate them into files and you get about 20 files but
it works fine. Started putting the types into one document but
this was too big.

...

XPath and XQuery go well quite well ...

Simon: do you have any issues with the properties in the base?

Amy: no. It works fine for me.

Simon: anything that you would like to be made optional ...

Amy: will send you the comments once I'm finished ...

Mario: what was decided about the sensitivity?

Simon: will make optional ... will probably make all the properties
       optional...

Dave: that might make sense ... 

Simon: we got sensitivity from JDBC .... not terribly well defined.

Norman: specs feel more solid than on previous occasions ... seem
        reasonably robust. We can try to evolve things before we can
        go to recommendations ... can use to engage with vendors

o AOB

Dave: I don't think we have  a call scheduled for next week ... don't
      know if we want to have one.

Simon: could look at the slide material that is going to be presented
       at GGF11.

Norman: was hoping to produce slides over the weekend ...

Dave: so I'll publish details for a telcon for next week ...

Brian: would be good to do a roll call for the people that are going
       to be attending GGF....

Dave: will try to add to put this on the email...

Document submission process was briefly discussed in relation to the
mappings document which may have to be submitted a little later than
the other documents.
