GGF 11 - 08/06/04 - DAIS Session 3: Related Standard and Activities
===================================================================

Chair: Dave Pearson
Note Taker: Mario Antonioletti

Dave Pearson opens the session.

Agenda for this session:

  1. Relationship to other Standards: Brian Collins
  2. Data Services Document - Issues and Plans: Allen Luniewski
  3. Object Database Services: Norman Paton

----

1. Relationship to other Standards: Brian Collins

Presentation at: 

http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF11-DAIS3-Relationships/en/1

Brian starts the presentation with some holiday snaps.

Did some work as part of the DAIS spec writing team to try and
familiarise myself with the related standard to the work that DAIS is
trying to do.

...

DAIS produced a scenarios document that was given to CIM.

CGS is the prime interface to CIM in the DMTF.

This in turn feed back through WS-Policy to the graap WG at GGF who
are producing WS-Agreement.

WS-Policy and WS-Addressing are not in a standard body.

The CIM database document is an inputs to the web services distributed
management effort ...

Data management is out of scope for DAIS.

DMTF introduce MOWS - Management of web services and MUWS Management
Using Web Services which will provide input to the DAIS specs.

In the GGF data area there are quite a lot of groups that are of
relevance to DAIS.

OREP does not do replication it does replication catalogues but Infod
could be used as a mechanism to do this.

At the previous infod WG meeting it became clear that data movement
does not currently appear to be a home.

Malcolm Atkinson: you could use the WS-Notification to do data
                  movement ...

Is it a could or a should?

Malcolm: it was a could ... the thinking in the WS-Notification TC is
        that it should be capable of doing serious large data
        transmission ... whether it will be retained and propagated to
        implementation remains to be seen ...

Dave Pearson: the point was that WS-Notification was unsuitable
              ... infod is looking at how notification models could be
              extended.

Malcolm: the biggest difference between WS-Notification is that it has
         a reasonably simple language while infod will probably have a
         full query language.

        Question whether GIR is really about collection of files.

The point is that we are not always clear as to what some of the GGF
groups do and whether they have an impact on DAIS.

There are a number of people from DAIS liaising with the other working
groups. The relationships are not formal but just who might be able to
contact to find out who can be asked.

Savas Parastatidis: went to the SAGA WG - they want someone to liaise
                    with DAIS ...  they are going to develop APIs for
                    application developers ....  e.g. submitJob,
                    transferFile ... etc they want to see what people
                    are doing ... they are in the architecture area.

Roger Reich: who is the DAIS interface to DMTF?

We do that through Larry Flon on the CIM group.

Malcolm: I'm on the OGSA data services ...

Dave: best thing is to put something out to the list and solicit
      feedback ...

Roger: it might be useful to have pointers back to DAIS ... if we can
       establish relationships back the way.

The action out of this is to publish something out to our mailing
list and perhaps to do some targeted mailing list.

-------

2. Data Services Document - Issues and Plans: Allen Luniewski

Presentation at: 

http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF11-DAIS3-DataServices/en/1

The purpose of this part of the session is to talk about the OGSA Data
Services document. This session is intended to talk about outstanding
issues in this document.

Will review the open issues and then will open the floor to collect
any new issues. The second goal of this session is to capture all the
issues that will be addressed for a revision of this document for
GGF12.

In the current draft of the document still need:

	- ResourceProperties elements to be defined
	- DataAccess operations to be defined
	- DataFactory operations to be defined
	- Data Management operations to be defined

that are common across all data services.

Susan Malaika: are not these things that should be in the DAIS core document?

That could well be true ... don't have strong issues.

Ten issues have been captured up to now.

    1. Move design principles from the base document to data services document.

Malcolm Atkinson: Metadata level issue - does it make sense to have an
                 OGSA data service specification and a DAIS
                 specification? I feel it makes it harder for people
                 that are tying to implement things - it's also harder
                 to keep the documents consistency.

Susan: like data management?

Malcolm: yes ... things keep on splitting ... they will not converge
         if they keep on splitting.

Norman Paton: one of the objections is that a specification is quite a
              terse document ... the OGSA data services is more
              discursive

Malcolm: I think that that is now being done by the OGSA Data
         Architecture group ...

Norman: I think that that is a good point ...

Malcolm: have pointed this out to the OGSA data architecture people
         ... need to get the two groups together and sort this out ...

Susan: this has been discussed in the telcons ... the OGSA effort
       would identify components and not the interfaces ...

Norman: the OGSA Data Service document does have different aspects
        ... characterises behaviour .... what it doesn't do is define
        the services and their inter-relationships.

Malcolm: people in the OGSA Data Architecture space want to describe
         these services more which starts eating into this space...

Norman: interesting thought that the way you think about this material
        that it could migrate to the data service architecture
        ... need to digest this.

Allen: need to see what the bounds of the data architecture effort are
       ...  we need to resolve this sooner rather than later ... the
       design team is also supposed to be a short term thing ... this
       could be a debate that could be had at the f2f later on this
       month.

    2. Using EPRs to denote replicas

Dave Pearson: there is a lot of communications in the OASIS mailing
              list about EPRs ..

Malcolm: this came up this morning in the WSRF session ...

Dave: give that there is a lot of discussion is this something that we
      should examine...

Malcolm: the WSRF community have postponed discussion on
         WS-Addressing until November ...

Allen: the issue that given 2 services what is the identity of the
       underlying resource that is being used ...

...

Savas Parastatidis: the spec states explicitly that you should not
                    exploit the properties of the EPR

Malcolm: this is what I said ...

Allen: this is not a question of how the client uses the EPR but how
       the service uses that field.

Malcolm: a standard though will not specify how the implementation will
do things

Savas: data services are allowed to look at the resource properties of
       its own EPR but not to the reference properties of another EPR
       ... even if it's a replica ...

Allen: it's a replica owned by another data service

Savas: where does the EPR point to - the data or a data service?
       ... so the EPR does not only point to a data service but to a
       resource that points to data

Norman: if you have replicas there is the thing that you have
        replicated and the representation of the that resource ....

Malcolm: I don't understand this issue as if you have a single WS that
         is representing a resource in which case it's its own
         business or whether you are building replicas using different
         WSs.

Savas: there is an issue with the latter case ... if you start having
       replicas ...

Malcolm: then you will require what Peter Kunszt described as a grid
         data handle... someone has to worry about this

Dave: have an interesting discussion ... do we have a decision?

Norman: the data services document talked about a functionality but
        when you start moving from that you start into run into all
        sorts of architectural issues ...

Malcolm: at the OGSA data service meeting this was pushed into the
         naming scheme ... the architectural document can say those
         things ...  ... I think that you should push this out from
         here ..

    3. DS placement manager vs other placement services.

Malcolm: again this is an implementation detail as we are only
         concerned with the message patterns.

I agree.

Malcolm: in motivational discussions you might discuss these things.
 
     4. Naming of data services?

Savas: do you name services or the data?

Services

Malcolm: in which case this is out of scope.

     5. third party data delivery vs workflow services.

Norman: if we thing that something should be thrown out we should
        minute this and then post this to the list. The people that
        brought the issues up can then have a chance to come back if
        they think this decision is incorrect.

Malcolm: this is a good question in that someone should discuss it but
         it should be at the OGSA level

This should be thrown to the OGSA data architecture level.

     6. Clarification of management interface

Talked about this earlier today. The management interface is discussed
very loosely - it needs to be clarified and its bounds defined ...
are you managing the service, the resource ...

Malcolm: depends on whether the data service is offering such
         interfaces ..  have not re-read the document ... I never
         understood what they meant by virtualisation...

Have tried to clarify that with Inderpal.

Malcolm: have not read your modifications yet ...

...

Dave: there is management between the service and the resource ...

Malcolm: interesting to note whether this is mandatory or ... and
         whether this to be supported by all web services.

    7. Data description interfaces: needed wsrf?

Removed this interface with the introduction of WSRF ... some people
were unhappy with this decision at GGF10.

Malcolm: we could keep an SDE like interface ... we can keep our own
         interfaces ... we will have interfaces that other people will
         not have but there is no way that we would not want to
         mandate an additional interface.

My gut feeling agrees with you ...

Malcolm: goes back to Brian's talk as things like this will be coming
        up in DMTF ... they will be doing this kind of thing and we
        don't want to replicate that ... we may want to pass them
        requirements ...

Norman: in the original OGSA Data Services document there were a lot
        of fine grained properties then, as you have a different
        portType in WSRF to access such properties, the data
        description port type became unnecessary ... in the core spec
        we've said that it is still useful to talk about data
        description but not necessarily expressing it as a portType
        ... one describes the data and another the behavioural
        description ... we have to be careful that we are not dealing
        with a red herring ... this arose because of a quirk ... if
        there continues to be an OGSA Data Service document there is
        an issue as to what the top level headings in the document are
        ... previously these were coupled to portTypes ... in the
        specs we have kept the top level headings but have not
        necessarily associated these with a portType ...

       Behaviour and informational properties are describing
       properties of the data service ... these are properties are
       associated with access methods of the data service ...

Susan: the behavioural ones ... the informational one describe the
       data.

Malcolm: we have to describe the data that a service will deliver but
         we do not need to discuss the interfaces that will deliver
         that data ...  clearly this is not specific to data services.

Susan: ok to have a heading called data description ...

Malcolm: yes, but it does not have to appear here... this goes higher
         up... the interface is being dealt with elsewhere

wsrf

    8. Factory interface - should not be an interface

Malcolm: but there is a factory pattern ... suppose if I'm about to
        generate lots of data ... I want to run my workflow to create
        a resource that will hold that data so we need a factory
        pattern

the issue is whether we need to state that ...

Malcolm: you don't need to as this is stated elsewhere.

     9. Relationship of data services to other grid services
    10. Clarify: not all data related services are data services

Malcolm: have been pushing for that ... have been trying to get the
         WSRF people to say the same thing ...

yep.

Malcolm: when I talked yesterday I produced things I thought that were
         still issues in the data part of OGSA ... we should look at
         these things in this context or in the OGSA architecture
         ... will send these out ...

How do we go on? Now have an issue regarding its relationship to the
OGSA data architecture ... however if the document has a future I
would like to have all future work completed, all known open issues
resolved, compatible with the work going on in the OGSA data
architecture effort.

Issues have been posted on grid forge and have not had any feedback ...

Malcolm: hard to work in the OGSA data service document and the
        architecture document as there is so much overlap ...

Dave: there might be a consensus in this room but need to ask ... what
      do the other authors say?

Have had no reply.

Malcolm: could partition it so that bits go into the architecture
        document and other bits go into the DAIS core document...

Norman: I think that is a fair way to proceed ... it should be rolled
        into the new effort that is taking the place

Mario: what's the process?

Dave: look at the document again in the context of the core spec and
      the OGSA Data Services spec to see which part of the document
      goes into which...

Norman: the reference in the core spec can become references to the
        OGSA data architecture document and definitions made explicitly
        in the core document as opposed to referencing the OGSA Data
        Services document.

Malcolm: the OGSA Data Architecture document is not going to be terse.

Norman: to take Susan's point if we have a non normative in the DAIS
        context then this is not the most helpful document to have
        ... we'll have a primer instead ...

----

3.Object Database Services: Norman Paton

Presentation at: 

 http://forge.gridforum.org/projects/dais-wg/document/GGF11-DAIS3-OO-Realisation/en/1

Have had some folks that expressed an interest in producing an OO
database realisation. Two persons expressed an interest in taking this
forward at GGF10. Have had one telcon which brought one additional
person up. Meant to have another telcon but this did not happen for a
variety of reasons.

Some issues are outlined in the slides.

JDOQL - a query is represented as a Java object ... in a web services
world cannot pass a Java objects around so need to find a way of
expressing this as a query.

This is not yet part of the DAIS charter.

Hope to identify additional participants ... getting close to the
level of representation to trigger something off in DAIS.

Malcolm: I don't know how big a community there is out there that
         wants to use this but there is a large community wants to use
         relational and xml ... this may have delaying effect on the
         task of finishing the relational and xml specs ... has anyone
         done an assessment on how it will affect our delivery dates?

We have not addressed the question as to how it might impact on the
rest of the community and the it is true that the likely usage of such
a realisation is going to be smaller. Should be logged as an issue and
we should try to answer this.

Dave: unless people come forward it's not going on to happen ...

Charlie: the object access paradigm applies to more than just OO
         databases ...  we have a product that does this kind of thing
         ... if you just pass SQL around then the tooling has to
         describe this ... not just OO databases but OO queries and
         other such types of queries...

We chatted about these things at our telcon but we have not chatted round
this ... going to ask for volunteers ... the issue was flagged but has not
been resolved.

Malcolm: at our [OGSA-DAI] user group meeting was files and access to
         the content of files ... if it takes us resources and if
         these resources are in competition then we should give more
         priority to files.

Charlie: the notion of disconnected data sets ... is relevant for xml
         data sets when a resource coughs up data sets ... the ability
         to work on those result sets and stream them back to the
         original resource and reconcile these things back together
         ... is any assumption made about connectedness?

No.

Charlie: there are the cursor things ...

You behave properties that reflect this ... sensitivity ... this does
not require you to be connected. You also brought up a use case we
have not explicit use case that we have not considered ... you have a
data set you manage it and then you pass it on ....

Dave: we would welcome a short note describing that use case.

----

