DAIS Telcon Minutes 12/02/04
----------------------------

Minutes by: Mario Antonioletti (mario@epcc.ed.ac.uk).

Attendees: 
	   Allen Luniewski (IBM)
	   Simon Laws (IBM)
	   Brian Collins (IBM)
	   Mario Antonioletti (EPCC)
	   Norman Paton (University of Manchester)
	   Savas Parastatidis (University of Newcastle)
	   Susan Malaika (IBM)
	   Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle)
	   Dave Pearson (Oracle)
	   Vladimir Beytser (SDSC)
	   Sastry Mallady (Oracle)

Agenda
======
    Review of actions arising from the Redwood face-2-face meeting
    Sematics and Metadata update

----

o Review of actions arising from the Redwood face-2-face meeting

o Sematics and Metadata update

Simon: have been doing a bit of work on this with Norman and Mario.
       Have been driving out the terms for service semantics. Have a
       few and also have a few that are orthogonal to this that manage
       these operations.  State at the moment is that we have some
       slides that are not ready for circulation. Plan to document
       where we got to with the semantics in written form to be
       included in the spec while in parallel we will produce more
       coherent slides that can be circulated later. That's pretty
       much where we are. Are people happy with this?

Norman: are people happy with this or do people want the slides to be
        circulated to the list? The disadvantage is that the slides
        are not self explanatory.

Dave: circulating the slides might ensure people are happy with
      the concepts before writing anything down.

Simon: they are very light at the moment ... people may not have
       enought time to go through them.

Dave: do not want people to do lots of iterative work

Norman: options are to bat out the slides as they are now for folks to
        comment or we wait a week and a textual version will then be
        available - we can then update the slides for GGF10.

Dave: decision should be down to the people that are working on it
      my comment is on the work involved.

Simon: my suggestion is that we carry on as we are doing now.

Norman: Metadata ... means susan.

Susan: what aspect of metadata?

Norman: ... where things are with CGS?

Susan: one of the topics dicussed at Redwoods was our interaction with
      CGS at the DMTF to try and describe databases. Databases were
      also described in the CGS working group. Try to get them to
      incorporate the bits of metadata that DAIS needs in the CGS
      metadata model. Have produced a draft document that a couple of
      people will look at before distributing more widely.

Norman: has it changed much since we worked on this?

Susan: sent out a draft to Larry and you (Norman) ... gave this higher
       priority than the face-to-face minutes .... combined your
       material with mine ... have 10 driving scenarios to encourage
       the CGS WG to prodcue metadata for DAIS .... proposed as
       something that they might want to work on ..

Norman: what is the proposed process as this is going as an
        informational document that is going through to GGF.

Susan: I think so ... pass it on to Larry so that they can start the
       work on extending the CIM database model to describe
       databases....  Larry can then start work on this.... the
       document is already in the right format.

Norman: thanks for that ... anyone particularly interested to have a
        look at that?

Dave: I would like to see it...

Susan: you have have been sent a copy of this ....

Savas: Was wondering whether simon was going to use this story for
       metadta ....perhaps better waiting until you publish it before
       reading it.

Norman: there is also quite a lot of metadata in the core specs and
        you could use that for the mappings. You could used that for
        mappings in the WSRF context. An informational doc will arise
        that will be produced to motivate discussion.

o Progress on spec documents

Mario: Amy and I have been doing some work on the xml spec ...  have
       been iterating through this ... the latest version is up on
       Grid Forge so we encourage everyone to go there, have a look
       and comment. Have also made some modifications to the
       relational spec in order to get it consistent with with the XML
       spec. I have passed this on to Amy and Susan to have a look at
       - should coordinate between Susan and Amy as to who has the
       edit token for the next iteration - I have also been doing some
       modifications to the core spec which I hope to pass on to
       Norman next week in order to get the content on semantics
       included.

Susan: can write some more on the stored procedure for the relational
       spec.

Mario: Amy will also be having a look at the relational spec.

Dave: there is a difference in the xml and relational specs with
      respect to the way they edge into data management... there is
      some data management in the xml spec which is not present in the
      relational spec. Brian Collins brought this up at the f2f -
      there is an issue as to where we draw the line ...

Susan: we intend to support DDL in the database ...

Dave: I agree we need to support DDL but we need to find out where to
      draw the line ... we are supporting management .. there were
      diffs ... we have to make a decision as to where the scope
      ends.  There are something in DDL that are needed by data
      access ...

Susan: we need to make a statement in XML as to where data management
       starts ....

Norman: Dave, as you have spotted, this can you write down a proposal
        and see if we can implement that proposal so we'll have that
        for the next GGF...

Susan: are you available after this call? ... you, Mario and I can
       discuss this? Are we going to ask for a longer time to produce
       the specs? ...

Norman: may need to modify the charter but we decided we would do this
        after GGF10 to see what the lay or the landwas ... we should
        then be in a position to revise what has to be done.


o DAIS requested session for GGF10 on WS Resource proposal

Norman: we have a plan ... 

Simon: plan is that we do work to investigate a common scenario and
       apply WSRF and WS-GAF and come up with a slide set that take us
       through the issues of doing this with the different models. Can
       scope this out now.

Norman: Simon/Savas and Sastry would lead this and could have slides
        to lead the discussion at GGF10. You guys are going to have a
        telcon.

Sava: we were going to use the telcon afterwards but Mario, Susan and
      Dave have usurped this ...

Simon: we are going to have a telcon today...

Sastry: start with simon's slides and the look at the sldies ...
        and we were going to add our set....

Savas: but Simon is going to revise the sldies now ...

Simon: these are the things taht we need to decide, the technologies,
       the use cases to be considered and what the success criteria
       are to be... we could do that now ...

Savas: we can do that amongst ourselves ... unless the others are
       interested?

Dave: the focus of this exercise is to determine what is best for DAIS
      ... we need some use cases ... but also what functions and
      operation are required for DAIS and how these map on to WS-* and
      what needs to change in these or what needs to change in DAIS...

Savas: but we can't concentrate on the whole of DAIS ... we need to look
      at sub cases ...

Simon: sounds like a good idea...

Norman: I thought that Sastry had seen your slides ...

Simon: I did send them ...

Sastry: checking for slides now ...

Norman: Simon demonstrated how some of DAIS mapped to WSRF ... we
	could now take a couple of scenarios and see how they fit
	within these frameworks ...  the things that matter to us are
	the scenarios ... have some existing scenarios that could be
	worked through ... and where there are things that can be
	mapped to WSRF, these could be mapped to WS-Context and then we
	could tackle the different concepts ... thinking of Greg's
	scenarios but there are some people that are working on an
	informational document that are trying to make a coherent
	scenarios for an informaitonal document .... Greg Riccardi and
	Mahadevan Subramanian ... not just the delivery scenarios ...
	they may be in a position to share a draft.  As you are not
	trying to produce a document you'll be able to work on this
	after the 20th ...  could take the scenarios from there or get
	an early draft ...

Simon: it's not just the scenarios but also the proof points ... 

Sastry: looked at the sldies ... reading of them is how to use WSRF
        ... look at the value which each model brings to the party
        ... what is the use case scenario and what we want to achieve
        and try to cast this in existing technologies and what you
        cannot do with the existing technologies...

Simon: we need to identify the added values ... 

Norman: in essence an agreement needs to be arrived as to how this
        going to be achieved ... my inclination is that you have a
        component in the doc - here are the concepts and how they are
        presented in the different frameworks ... and how these are
        implemented in different representative scenarios ... put the
        mappings first and then the scenarios as the scenarios could
        grow much more quickly than a rather relatively stable mapping
        ...

Simon: before the mappings we need to find out the points we need to
       bring out .... then we build the points that we want to
       demonstrate as quickly as we can and then the rest of it can be
       done independently and the bits can be put together ...

Savas: will have to work via email as I'll be away for about a month
        ... will not be at the office but will have acces to mail ...

Simon: if we circulate a list of points that we can agree to in the
       first instance and the technologies that we wish to consider in
       the mappings ... what do we mean by web services, wsrf, etc
       ....  The list of point can be evolved in parallel ... can do
       that and move on from there ...

AOB
---

Susan: curious if anyone is going to WS-Notifcation  ...

Simon: is Martin going?

Mario: I will ask Neil tomorrow.

Sastry: there is a legal requirement in order to go ...

Susan: I would like to go .... there is a BOF in informatio
       dissemination at GGF10.

Norman: we meet again in a week ... quite close to the document
        deadline.

[Susan dropped off at this point]

Dave Pearson will arrange a meeting so that the boundary between data
access and data management can be discuss tomorrow: with Susan, Amy,
Mario and Dave and Brian.

Norman: deadline for documents is now 24/2 which gives us a fraction
        longer

[As Susan drops off Dave offers the telcon to Simon, Savas and Sastry ...
 except that Sastry drops off :-)]

