Transactions RG Telcon, 19th July 2004 Minutes

In attendance: Jim Webber, Torsten Steinbach, Tony Fletcher 

Items:

1. Chair issues

Coverage has been an issue. GGF11 coverage was sporadic, GGF12 coverage
uncertain (Torsten possible, Jim will fill in if necessary).
This hampers the progress of the group to some extent. Additional chair
may be necessary. Geographically advantageous to be in the USA or
thereabouts with no qualms about travel.

Tony would like to take increased role in group, day job permitting.

2. Future work direction (use case docs)

It was suggested that a proforma for individual use cases in the use
case document should be created to help distil the pertinent information
from each use case.
 - Jim to generate proforma, Tony to edit final documents.

It was thought that the Use case document would be an input to GGF 12 -
a reasonable goal would be a first complete draft.

Final "sign off" on use case document for GGF 13 would be desirable.

Tony suggests the WS-Chor use case and requirements document as a good
example of use case documentation.

3. GGF 12 plans

Tony asks whether we will be a proper RG at GGF 12. Torsten says that we
need to approach the data area chairs again with our plan. He also notes
that we have done everything that has been asked of us in terms of
paperwork. Torsten agreed to approach David Martin to discuss this
matter which he has subsequently done. A teleconference is being
arranged.

Plan to have two sessions at GGF 12:

Session 1: Use case document review (plus any administrative work)

Session 2: At GGF 11 lots of members of the group thought it would be
useful to have some level of educational assistance from existing WS
transactions researchers and vendors. This assistance to consist of
objective presentations of TRANSACTION MODELS not detail per se (or
politics!). Presentations should be short (20-25 mins, 10-12 slides) and
to the point because of time constraints.
Torsten to talk to WS-AT/BA folks. Jim to talk to WS-CAF folks. Tony is
a BTP folk  


Torsten to take to do on specifying the agenda for GGF 12.


AOB

It was mooted that we may need to solicit some input or liaison with the
workflow group. Agree to see in which direction the use cases take us
before following up.

Next telcon (tentaive): 11th August 2pm BST, 3pm CET

Actions:

Chairs to telcon with GGF on upgrade from BoF to RG.
Torsten to specify agenda for GGF 12.
Torsten to invite WS-AT/BA people to present at GGF 12.
Jim to invite WS-CAF people to present at GGF 12.
Jim to write use case proforma.
Tony to edit use cases document.


Meeting adjourned.