Dejan Kojo Jun Steve 

- Quick update from GGF10 (Dejan) 

- Update on the progress of the Foundation document (Dejan) 

Dejan has a list of small topics to change. 

- Update on the progress of the SF-based language spec (Steve) 

Dejan has a list of small topics to send to steve for changes 

DM proposed getting docs ready for next week; have a discussion on the
topic next wed. 

Documents to be ready by end of day monday. (timezone of author) 

- Individual status on the updates of relationship to other groups
(Various owners) 

-Kojo sent his mail -steve emailed his -Dejan to talk to Jim (GRAAP)
very soon. 

- Update and plans for the basic service spec (Kojo) 

Kojo: three scenarios -one used by the PE team. 

End of april. : agreement on diagram showing how things interrelate. 

No plan to prototype anything before GGF11, but we can plan to this
afterwards. 

Discussion on coding. Jun is going to get involved. Steve is willing
too. 

We'd need to stub out behaviours. Perhaps not even implement the
language, just parse the language. 

DM has concerns that PE is primarily talking at meetings, he wants to
see them delivering more and getting better involved with us. 

- Update and plans for the Component model spec (Stuart) 

(stuart was absent, so discussion delayed till next week) 

AOB: 

Discussion on calculation of resource needs -what dependencies are.
CDDLM will need to tell Resources what is needed as it expands the
deployment descriptors. 

(thought: probably the best metric of what is needed is what was needed
last time when a system was in a stable state (not startup, shutdown,
peak load). So if the monitoring infrastructure can remember what
resources were needed on previous executions, you could roll out those
resources to begin with, then ramp them down or up depending on what the
SLA monitoring felt was needed)
