Notes by Susan Malaika

You can find  the presentations for the 3 day DAIS F2F held in January here
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewCategory.php?group_id=49&category_id=629


Friday 23rd January: DAIS Face-to-Face: Data Services Day
---------------------------------------------------------
Steve Graham presented Web Services Resource Framework (WSRF) and
WS-Notification through the morning. The corresponding specifications had
become public a few days before.  For Steve's presentation, see
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1710

The goal of the presentation was to alert the DAIS community to the variety
of options for modeling and implementing data services. Currently the DAIS
specifications rely on OGSI 1.0.

The presentation generated much discussion in a number of areas including:
   - How does a WS-Resource fit with other technologies and specifications?
   - Are there any worked examples of a WS-Resource, along with its EPR
   (End Point Reference), resource properties and reference properties?
   - Are WS-Resources intended for inter organization collaboration? or
   just for Intranets?
   - Can a single WS-Resource be:
      * Modeled through different resource properties?
      * Accessed through different reference properties
   When and Why would this be a good thing?
   - Should all data in tables and collections be exposed as resource
   properties?
   - What should be modeled as a WS-Resource? e.g., DBMS, Database, Table,
   Session, DBOperation? or the relationship between a service and a DBMS,
   Database, Table etc?
   - How should client interaction state be modeled?
   - What is the scope of names for DAIS WS-Resources?
   - How does Resource Life Cycle relate to a:DBMS, Database, Table,
   Session, DBOperation?
   - Will the OGSA Data Services DataDescription port type remain?
   - Can WS-Notification be applied to database triggers? to third party
   delivery
   - Can WS-Notification and WS-Resource factory pattern be used together?
   Service composition?
   - How should DAIS operations be linked together?
   - How does the query interface on resource properties relate to regular
   database query interfaces? And to other existing query interfaces? Will
   there be a single mapping? (Weâ^À^Ùll have to choose one?)

Feedback sessions took place during the afternoon. including:
   Savas Parastatidis gave his initial impressions on the specifications.
   Savas's presentation appears here:
   https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1732
   Ann Chervenak presented her reaction on the possible effects on the
   OREP-WG
   Martin Westhead presented his reaction on the possible effect on file
   access
   Vitthal Gogate (Suhas) described how the specifications might affect the
   data distribution work. Suhas's chart appears here
   https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1721

Comments on the WSRF and WS-Notification specifications can be sent in to
the OGSI mailing list.
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsi-wg
Details of further public presentations and documents on WSRF and
WS-Notification can also be found on the OGSI mailing list.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Monday 26th January: DAIS Face-to-Face: Core Specifications
-----------------------------------------------------------


Dave Pearson welcomed us to the excellent facilities at Redwood Shores

Norman Paton presented Data Service Semantics. For the charts, please see
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1700


   Global Issues were listed: 1. Organization of Specifications, 2.
   Functionality of Core, 3. Semantics of Operations, 4. Description of
   Semantics in Specifications. 3. Semantics of Operations is the main
   subject of this talk. OGSI dependencies scattered through the
   specification.
   Goals: (1) Identify Dependencies (2) Discuss proposed documents
   structures at GGF10 (3) Recast specifications to new structures
   Proposed document structure was presented: Introduction; Notation; Data
   Description; Data Access  Operations. Data Management; Mapping to WSRF
   (or descendent) WSDL; Security considerations. Conclusions.
   Synchronous and Asynchronous deferred requests were discussed
   ASIDE: During this session, a proposed BOF on transactions in GGF10 was
   mentioned. (They'll probably try to produce an informational document on
   transactions for the grid)
   Main action: The semantics effort will proceed (Norman Paton, Simon
   Laws, Savas Parastatidis  and a session is planned for GGF10

Martin Westhead presented File Access in OGSA-DAI. For the charts, please
see
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1703
   There was discussion on whether this overlaps with the Grid File System
   working group (GFS-WG). The conclusion was no. GFS-WG is focused on
   management.
   There was discussion about when DAIS would be re-chartered to include
   files. The conclusion was that DAIS won't be re-chartered to include
   files until after GGF10
   Streams were mentioned but the conclusion was that they were out of
   scope for DAIS


Susan Malaika presented Data Service Realisations for Relational data. For
the charts, please see
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1702
Amy Krause presented Data Service Realisations for XML data. For the
charts, please see
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1704


   Standards work in related groups (outside GGF is proceeding), which will
   benefit DAIS, e.g., an agreed XML serialization for XPath, XSLT and
   XQuery results
   A follow up topic for both these sessions: To ensure consistency across
   XML and relational realizations particularly in the area of management
   (or administration interfaces). Follow up calls are being conducted


Susan Malaika presented the status of the CGS collaboration with DMTF on
extending the CIM model for database in support of the DAIS-WG and data
grids. For the charts, please see
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1751
Larry Flon (CGS-WG co-chair) and Dejan Milojicik (CDDLM-WG co-chair) joined
the session remotely.
For information on the roles of the two groups see
http://www.gridforum.org/1_GIS/CIM.htm and
https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/cddlm-wg
For an overview of the CIM model for database see
http://www.dmtf.org/standards/published_documents/DSP0133.pdf and
http://www.dmtf.org/standards/cim/cim_schema_v28
In the meeting, we priotitized the motivational scenarios to be used to
extend the DMTF CIM model for databases to include characteristics of
importance to the DAIS-WG
   - High Priority
      * Extend the model to cover relational database content SQL
      * Relational schema objects
      * Model additional common database entities, such as database users
   - Medium Priority
      * Policy Terms
      * Enable management capabilities such as database provisioning
   - Low Priority
      * Model common database management workflows, such as backup
      operations
      * Model other common database technology areas, such as resource
      management, queuing, and replication
Main action: A GGF informational paper will be produced on the motivational
scemarios We've collected the first round of comments on the informational
paper. It should get to the CGS mailing lists soon. At GGF10 the CGS-WG
will start analysing the scenarios and plan for the CIM model extensions


Greg Riccardi described Request Aggregation. For the presentation see:
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1701

   - Goal: To process a collection of requests (not to perform a
   composition)
   - Comparison with Microsoft dataset discussed - Microsoft dataset
   focused on relational representation
   - Some further scenario work will take place with the Data Distribution
   (Information Dissemination) folk. See actions below in Data Distribution
   proposal.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Tuesday 27th January: DAIS Face-to-Face: Data Distribution (proposed name
Information Dissemination)
----------------------------------------------------------

Shailendra Mishra presented the latest information on the Data Distribution
proposal which was well received. For the presentation, see:
https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=629&document_content_id=1720
The main actions are as follows:
   Dieter Gawlick and Cecile Madsen will proceed with the Information
   Disemination (ID - the new name for data distribution) BOF at GGF10
   Shailendra Mishra and Mahadevan Subramanian (Maha) will prepare  an
   Information Dissemination scenarios document for GGF10 based on Greg
   Riccardi's scenarios, and adding scenarios on replication, ETL, workflow
   and astronomy.
   Vitthal Gogate (Suhas) and Chris Kantarjiev will produce a revision of
   the GDD specification(which will now be known as ID) See
   https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=49&category_id=517&document_content_id=1152



Dave Pearson described the planning process for GGF10. Here are the main
points that were agreed:
   Proceed with the semantics work at GGF10, including UML descriptions. A
   DAIS-WG session will be devoted to this topic.
   Proceed with the input for the CGS-WG group as part of their
   collaboration with DMTF to extend the CIM model for databases. The
   material will be covered in CGS-WG sessions with support fromDAIS-WG
   members.
   Proceed with the Data Distribution work in GGF10 by running a BOF. A
   DAIS-WG session will also cover th topic and specifically the
   relationship with DAIS
   Defer re-chartertering DAIS WG to include file access until after GGF10
   Focus on resolving issues in the spec that were neutral in terms of
   mapping to any conceptual model.
   Investigate WS-Resource and other WS-* mappings to DAIS - the initial
   findings to be presented in a session at GGF10.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here is the list of participants over the three days (not all attended all
three days)

   Chaitan Baru
   Ann Chervenak
   Brian Collins
   Vitthal Gogate
   Steve Graham
   Dieter Gawlick
   Jim Gray
   Shannon Hastings
   Neil P Chue Hong
   Chris Kantarjiev
   Amy Krause
   Isao Kojima
   Stephen Langella
   Allen Luniewski
   Susan Malaika
   Sastry Malladi
   David E Martin
   Inderpal Narang
   Savas Parastatidis
   Norman Paton
   Dave Pearson
   Vijayshankar Raman
   Greg Riccardi
   Mahadevan Subramanian
   Jay Unger
   Martin Westhead


With thanks to Amy Krause for her notes :-)


