                Agenda for OGSA-WG interim F2F meeting
                - Sept. 3 & 4 at Fujitsu Sunnyvale -
                      Draft 1 (Aug. 26, 2003)

[Sept. 3, 9am-noon]

1-1) Early discussion (15min)
        Note taker assignment
        Roll call (in person and on bridge)
        Agenda bashing
        AOB

1-2) GridForge best practice discussion (15min)

1-3) CMM-WSDM discussion (30min)
        CMM / WSDM meeting is planned after F2F meeting.

1-4) Data services in section 5.2 discussion (120min)
     <Check list>
        Is Level of detail correct?
        High level architectural review
        Identify what are mandatory or optional
        Do we agree on list of service descriptions?
        Identify missing piece

        (We don't do detailed text review; wordsmithing)

        Data                            - Ian

Sept. 3, 1-6pm]

2-1) Review Program execution services in section 5.3 (120min)
        <see check list on 1-4>

        Program Execution               - Ming

2-2) Review Core services in section 5.1 (part 1, 180min)
        <see check list on 1-4>

        Handle resolution               - Frank
        Policy & Agreements             - Jay
        VO                              - Jay
        Security                        - Frank
        Discovery                       - Ian
        ServiceDomain,      -\
        Service composition,--\         - Shel
        orchestration,      --/
        workflow            -/

        Metering & Accounting           - Andreas
        Installation & deployment       - (Jeffrin)

https://forge.gridforum.org/docman2/ViewProperties.php?group_id=42&document_content_id=615

2-3) Send draft minutes to the participants

[Sept. 3 7-10pm]

Group dinner at Chinese Restaurant (Jay's recommendation)

[Sept. 4, 9am-noon]

3-1) Early discussion (15min)
        Note taker assignment
        Roll call (in person and on bridge)
        AOB

3-2) Review Core services in section 5.1 (part 2, 165min)
        <see check list on 1-4>

        Fault detection/management      - Jeffrin
        Problem determination           - (Jeffrin)

        Logging                         - Hiro? >Andreas

        messaging & queueing            - Shel
        events                          - (Jay)

[Sept. 4, 1-6pm]

4-1) Review Chapter 4 of platform document
        Infrastructure (?) services (120min)

4-2) GGF9 session preparation (90min)
        GGF9 session plan
        Preparation for GGF9 session
        Decide which groups to invite

4-3) Review use case document (60min)
        Jeffrin's session

4-4) Review the rest of platform document (if time allows)

4-5) Wrap up (30min)
        Review next steps
        AOB

4-6) Send draft minutes to the participants
