{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf430
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Georgia;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20280\viewh19060\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
HPC Job Delegation Profile Working Session\
OGF25,\
March 4, 2009, \
Catania, Italy\
---\
Note taker: Ariel Oleksiak\
---\
\
Alexander started the session from explaining the main goal of the group which is to define use-cases and requirements for the delegation of HPC jobs between schedulers in different administrative domains.\
\
Alexander:\
- There are OGF standards available that can be used for that purpose. For instance, there are job execution standards so it is relatively easy to submit a job. The main  question is how to use all these existing specs together.\
- In particular the unresolved question is how to pass responsibility from one scheduler to another and monitor the full job lifecycle.\
\
The basic protocol discussed at OGF23 in Barcelona was presented. It consists of the main 4 phases:\
- Session generation\
- Handover of responsibility\
- Job execution \
- Usage tracking\
\
Alexander:\
 - Although WS-Agreement might seem to be the natural choice for the session generation, creation of dynamic WS-Agreement templates can turn out to be too slow. However, this must bed checked in more detail!\
 - Similarly, WS-Agreement could be used for handover of responsibility but it is too generic. Therefore, a profile for the presented scenario is required.\
 - Description of usage tracking is available only after job execution. Moreover, usage tracking is done only within BES container although a job lifecycle starts earlier: when submitted by end-user.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Bernhard:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 - a term \'91usage tracking\'92 should be related to a running job rather than state changes and processing job request!\
Donal\
- the same discussion during the activity instance schema session -> conclusion: state changes and usage tracking must be separated\
\
Chris Smith: \
- why not to submit a job first to BES? Then the BES container may delegate a job\
- BES has an extendible state model so it may be used for this purpose if needed\
- perhaps a specific interface is needed but probably similar to BES (so maybe it\'92s better to extend it)\
Alex:\
- first, analysis of what is needed was planned and then decision whether BES extension or something else\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Bernhard:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 - there are customers with detailed resource requirements, e.g. bandwidth, type of network, etc. so a generic way of expressing requirements is needed\
\
Donal:\
- that\'92s why JSDL is extendable \
\
\
The future of the group discussed. Questions raised whether the group should continue its work and, if so, in which way: by forming a new BoF, attempting to influence work of other groups such as GRAAP, JSDL, BES.\
\
Donal:\
- outcomes of the group containing identified gaps and recommendations, e.g. narrowing WS-Agreement, need of Activity Instance schema etc., are very valuable\
Chris:\
- if the group itself feels the work is needed and there are enough people interested in this effort it should be continued; however more visible group\'92s publicity is expected\
-  the best way is spawning a new group, BoF would be a good idea since it might attract people and we could check how many of them are interested\
- moving some work to GRAAP or JSDL might cause hiding the results and discourage people which are, for instance, not interested in details of GRAAP\
\
Ramin:\
- problem with people willing to work\
- there are few people because few projects are working on such issues\
\
Chris:\
- this work is a bit more high level than basic low level OGF specs; if a group deals with design rather than only interfaces its usage is limited\
	\
Wolfgang:\
- but the main goal of the group is to analyze interfaces between particular components in the basic scenario and check if specific OGF specifications are sufficient for this scenario\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\ql\qnatural
\cf0 Bernhard:\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 - maybe the DGrid scheduling interoperability project is relevant and can help in group\'92s progress?\
Ramin:\
- yes, but the same group of people is involved in this initiative; we would need other initiatives from other communities \
\
}