{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf480
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11904\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13180\viewh12700\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Grid Scheduling Architecture Research Group\
OGF 24, Group Session\
September 17, 2008\
Singapore\
---\
Note taker: Philipp Wieder\
---\
\
The main discussion during the session was the lack of progress made by the group. Reasons and means to change this have been discussed. \
\
- Proposal by Wolfgang: Re-charter, focus on a more specific topic (not the generic GSA), become Working Group. The inter-scheduler protocol is e.g. of interest.\
\
- Q (Ramin): What is missing that should be the focus of the GSA-RG? What should we focus on? Where are the problems?\
  + Alexander: Something that fills the gap of EMS.\
  + Philipp: EMS is too vague, would go into direction GSA again.\
\
  + Oliver: Regarding the generic overall acrichtecture, there is no common concept of the people participating in GSA regarding what a common arch. should look like. Clear focus is needed, but how this can be achieve dis unclear.\
\
  + Alexander: The missing progress is not a problem of interest of the participants, more of the lack of involvement and leadership.\
\
  + Wolfgang: The "Barcelona" (OGF 23) interop. protocol is an important issue for scheduling and resource management.\
 \
- GFSG gossip (Ramin): If GSA is compared to GRAAP, for example, which has 8 implementations mainly in the domain of HPC, a clear focus is visible. But GSA is just too broad.\
\
- Discussion of interoperability scenario\
 + Ramin: What is planne dto be used in the German scheduling project? - Alexander: WS-Agreement plus X. - Ramin: WS-Agreeement alone would not work. Would you go for HPCBP? Alexander: The project would try to, and since Platform is on board, expertise is there.\
+ Ramin; Ok, basis for scheduling project is OGF stuff. What about SLA@SOI? - Costas: This is not clear yet. GSA should not count on SLA@SOI.\
+ Ramin: GRAAP need Advance Reservation for most of its use cases, but how dependend is the specification on WSRF (which may be a showstopper for new projects to implement)? - A: WS-Agreement depends on WSRF. Philipp: How difficult to get rid of WSRF in WS-Agreeement? - Oliver: This is not so easy, since WS-Agreement is about stateful services. - Alexander: Is WS-Lifetime needed? - Oliver: Perhaps, but would switching to WS-Transfer et al. imply real progress? - Alexander: It seems that a number of people switch to WS-Transfer. - Oliver: It could be done like in BES: everybody implements their own state engine. - Ramin: A lot of people will not touch WSRF starting something new. WS-Transfer more likely the choice. --- Cut [more a GRAAP discussion] --\
  + Diverse details like OGSA-RSS and OGSA have been discussed briefly.\
\
- Next steps? How to progress?\
  + It is not so much a content problem, but a leadership problem. There is enough interest.\
  + Ramin: Would IANOS [www.ianos.org] be interested in being standards-compliant? - Oliver: Would be of interest, but not all requirements fit with the interoperability scenario in GSA. But WS-Agreement, JSDL, and CGS are used by IANOS.\
  + Philipp: If looking for synergies, is IANOS a potential driver for GSA? Oliver: IANOS goes more into the direction of requirements for OGSA-RSS. - Wolfgang: INAOS is interested in investing time in GSA. Hassan may be a candidate to help out in GSA.\
  + Alexander: The interop. scenario will be implemented in teikoku anyway.\
\
- Decision:\
  + Stay with the interop. scenario.\
  + Alexander will support Philipp leading the group.\
  + Continue as planned.\
\
- Next steps:\
 + Alexander: cadence of phone calls\
 +  Philipp: dig out all existing material\
 + Philipp:  summarise discussion and come up with a roadmap}