{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf420
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12120\viewh12520\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 GSA-RG Minutes\
OGF21, October 16, 2007\
03:15pm - 4:45pm\
\
Room: Amphitheatre\
Attendance: about 20-25\
\
Note-taker: Ramin Yahyapour\
\
- Intro by Philipp Wieder\
	+ Slides available on GridForge: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14824\
	+ Scope of the RG\
\
- Presentation by Alexander Papaspyrou\
	+ Slides available on GridForge: https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14825\
	+  Q: what is needed for submission interface beyond DRMAA, BES?\
		- The linkage between the different protocols is not clear.\
		   Submission could be via DRMAA or BES.\
		   A unified super-set for submission is necessary.\
		   Could hide negotiation behind it.\
		- BES/DRMAA does not sufficient for scheduling, just for submission/starting.\
		\
- Continuation Philipp\
	o Work towards interoperation\
	o JSDL subset for interoperablity to be decided by the partners with scheduler\
	   solutions.\
	o Proposal for Scheduling Description Language (SDL)?\
		- Need for a new WG? RGs are not supposed to create specs.\
		- Decision: Go for a BOF at OGF22\
	o Continuation of Grid scheduling requirements document?\
		- Decision: Finalise it, typical members agree to spend the time. Necessary to\
                     kick everyone to actually do it. If no final draft until OGF 22, discontinue.}