OGF 21, GRAAP-WG, session minutes

Minutes taken by Oliver Wäldrich and Philipp Wieder 
[Contents of slides not reported, please refer to presentations on
GridForge.]

Session #1
----------
Topic: general issues and interoperability testing

- Wolfgang gave an overview of the actions taken since the last OGF 

- WIKI pages
 o	New WIKI pages online 
 o	Negotiation issues 
 o	Renegotiation wish-list

- Definition of the interoperability tests 
 o	No compliance tests
 o	Does not address security issues
 o 	It is on the group to define the interop. scenario and apply this definition.
 o	Definition of the testing scenarios
   + 	Hello world
   +	Simple script calling echo
   +  	Synchronous invocation of the agreement service (scenario 1)
   		Basis for current interop. test
   + 	Asynchronous invocation of the agreement service (scenario 2)
   		via pending agreement factory
   		
- Status interoperability test
 o	Oliver & Dominic have set up a test environment, full interop. 
 	on protocol level is not yet achieved. 
 o 	WSRF problems solved. Found new issues like e.g. namespaces.
 o	Oliver reports that the main problems are regarding the implementation. 
 	Bugs in Muse -> next step to create and send patches to Muse developers
 o 	GIN requested interop. tests at SC'07, but this is not yet possible

- Structure of the interoperability testing specification document
 o	Informational document
  +		Document online on the WIKI
  + 	Philipp will provide a template for the interoperability document during 
		the OGF [Action, DONE]
  +		Wolfgang and Oliver will describe the scenarios of in the interop 
		document until end of the month [Action, first week Nov.]
 o	Description of the scenarios
 o	Description of the starting position
 o	Description of the components
 o	Should include an Appendix with environment details
 
- SORMA, ASKALON could take up the interop. testing doc and also make the tests 
  and report back to GRAAP
- Take doc to ASKALON and ask them to also do the work [Action, Wolfgang]

- Experience report
 o	Will follow once the tests have been executed
 o	Experience doc is the formal one going to the GFSG, the use case doc is less 
 	formal and more for the community
 
- Roadmap
 o 	Interop. testing specification doc at OGF 22
 o 	Scenario 1 implementation until end of 2007
 o	Scenario 2 soft target OGF 22. Then team up with GIN at OGF 22.
 
 
Session #2 
----------
Topic: Discussion on term language issues

- Motivation
 o	Addressing the latest JSDL changes
 o	Terms for specifying license and network terms
 o	Terms for defining KPI

- New microspec for defining KPI targets
 o	clarify KPI
 o	Omar will provide some input how KPI target are mapped to operational targets
 o	GSA will potentially provide input in terms of the Scheduling Description 
 	Language (SDL) microspec
 o	SDL could be used for defining KPI

- Microspec should contain a selection and description of terms (Glossary)
- Responsibilities for Microspecs
 o	Wolfgang: Licenses
 o	Oliver: Network
 o	Omar: KPI

- Omar suggested to have a survey of what is out there (e.g. in terms of KPI and 
  network) instead of a microspec
 o	KPI: http://kpilibrary.com/
 o	Network: Network Markup Language, Network measurement WG

- Definition of Guarantee terms
 o	Dominic mentioned that scheduling guarantees are needed

- Discussion on how WS-Agreement relates on workflows
 o	Should people be able to express complex Workflows within SLAs?
  +		Failure handling could be very hard 
  +		Implementation issues
  + 	Workflow languages already in place
 o	Outcome of the discussion:
  +		WS-Agreement can represent a workflow
  + 	A WS-Agreement SLA can be part of a workflow (e.g. BPEL)
  + 	But WS-Agreement should not be used as workflow description 
		language

- Start of discussion of WS-Negotiation
 o	Sebastian Hudert send his thesis on "Collaboration in the Area of SLA 
	Negotiations in the Grid"; which could provide interesting input for WS-
	Negotiation
 o	Philipp will clarify if we may put Sebastians work on the WIKI or not
 o 	[Action, Michael] Looking into the work from Hudert
 o	Goals: first draft skeleton for WS-Negotiation for next OGF
 o	Presentation by Michael Parkin on Contract Renegotiation Protocol
 o 	[Action, Bastian] Evaluate the presentations from the OGF 20 workshop wrt to re-negotation


Session #3
---------- 
Topic: WS-Agreement negotiation

- Use case discussion: Three are currently on the list
 o 	More details regarding the uses cases are needed for better understanding
 o 	Input from Michael (Grid super-scalar: changeable resource demand over time), Omer, ...
 o 	Co-allocation use case from VIOLA from Wolfgang, Omer to annotate with SORMA
 o	Template for use cases needed: parties involved, messages, ...

- Proposal: use cases --> derive requirements 
  --> evaluate against the existing protocols 
  --> chose one and see what the community thinks about it
- [Michael, Action] Evaluation of existing protocols to be put into the use case document
 
- Starting point for neg. protocol
 o	bi-lateral negotiations
 o	nothing like auctions
 
- Existing number of protocol proposals: 4

- Need to have a plan for the future. Do we want to have a neg. protocol? -> Group decision: YES

- Is the neg. protocol part of WS-Agreement? - No, a separate document, but related

- Session summary
 o 	WS-Agreement is done and should not be modified (therefore, issues like EU contract 
  	law are out of scope at the moment)
 o 	Negotiation precedes the creation of the SLA which is done according to WS-Agreement
 o 	We have to look into the issues of renegotiation

- Decision: Change of telecom frequency to very four weeks (possibility to have more)

- Hook up with European Collaboration group TG3 to enlarge community

