Notes from DAIS session 31/01/2007
==================================

Notes: Neil Chue Hong
Slides presented available from: 

       http://www.ogf.org/gf/event_schedule/?id=547

12 people attended

Mario Antonioletti presented: Status Update slides

Dave Pearson, the DAIS WG chair,  apologises for his absence but he
was unable to travel.

An object based DAI-O realisation led by Thomas Soddemann has stalled
since GGF14.

Mario put up a slide showing the status of implementations and
interoperability testing.

Q: Is the test suite developed by the UoM targeted at
   interoperability testing? Or another sort of testing?

A: Targeted at interoperability, based on interoperability
   informational document.

Q: When you say interoperability, you remain in the same context, i.e.
   DAIX only or DAIR only?

A: Yes, DAIX interop and DAIR interop are separate.

Mario asked for volunteers to help write specs

Mario noted that DAIS are going to look at a draft SAGA data access
document.

Isao Kojima presented: RDF(S) Querying Specification

Q (Andre): What's the reason for not supporting update operations?
A: We focus on query - there is no standard just now which supports 
   update but we keep this open for the future.

Q (Mario): Is anyone working on update languages?
A: There was, but the activity appears to have stopped now

Q (Mario): Is anyone interested in contributing?
Silence

Q (Mario): You started off with an example of what you did. How big is
           your ontology, how many triples?

A: It's very small ontology using Jenas as the background server.

Q (Mario): SPARQL is a proposed recommendation, how long to full
           recommendation status?

A: Currently a candidate recommendation, however recently rewinded
   some of the functionality. There should not be too much impact from
   changes though.

Miguel Esteban Gutierrez presented: Ontology Access

Q (Mario): Presumably you don't need to follow the hierarchy?
A: No, but you need to know the resource you want to get to.

Q (Mario): What is a repository, a graph, a collection of graphs?
A: It is a collection of triples

Q (Mario): Are you going to standardise the language across the 
           documents?
A: Yes, we have to! We plan to get together with the Tokyo team, this
   may lead to renaming of some operations.

Malcolm Atkinson: Dave De Roure is the official OGF liaison with W3C
                  but we should think how we get some sort of
                  endorsement from W3C in this area.

Miguel: is giving a tutorial at the W3C conference at Banff.

Q (Andre): Who are the "customers"? and how are you involved with 
           them?

A (Mario): We worked closely with IBM and Oracle in the beginning -
           we've not had enough buy-in from people who control database
           products. OGSA-DAI will be using this interface and the OSU
           BMI team also plan to implement it. It has been good as a
           basis for moving forward into the RDF domain. However uptake
           for DAIS has been slow.

Savas Parastatidis: entered the room late and promised to have a
                    implementation of DAI-RDF by tomorrow ;-)

Meeting closed.


