OGSA Interim Meeting at OGF20 
=============================

  - Venue: University of Manchester 
  - Date: 11 May

  - Agenda details:
       https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/wiki1714

  - Minutes: Minute taker is noted per topic 
  - Participants: Participant changes, if any, are noted per section

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto
  Jem Treadwell
  Andreas Savva
  Donal Fellows
  Ellen Stokes
  Dave Snelling
  Hugo Mills
  Michel Drescher
  Steven Newhouse
  Ravi Subramaniam
  Steve McGough
  Chris Kantarjiev
  ZackK
  Fred Maciel
  Ferenc Szalai
  Adrian Toth
  Fred Brisard
  Bahareh Rahmanzadeh
  Abdeslem Djaoui
  Sergio Andreozzi 
  Laurence Field

  Bridge: Frank Siebenlist

* Summary of Actions

  AI-0511a: Ferenc Szalai to confirm NorduGrid/KnowARC participation
            and potential co-leader of IS design team.

  AI-0511b: Michel to pulla workflow strawman poposal together

  AI-0511c: Steve Newhouse volunteered to look into the possible next
            documents for the EMS Architecture and draw up a proposal

  AI-0511d: Hiro to do another zoomerang to confirm summer F2F dates

* Glossary review

  [Minutes: Andreas Savva]

  - It is still an open issue whether to publish this version of the
    Glossary as new GFD or not.
    - So far this document has been synchronized with the OGSA
      Architecture document, but work on that document has not started
      yet.
    - There is a possibility to do an errata release for the OGSA
      Architecture for just the Data-related definitions.

** Discussion of terms

   [Some of the discussion captured below. The final text is in the
   draft edited by Jem during the meeting.]

*** State

   Following last call and list discussions

   - Should text on 'stable' (non-changing) state be removed because
     it is 'not interesting'?
   - Is state a 'snapshot' of interesting values? No, state is not a
     snapshot; but a snapshot can be taken of it.
   - Deleted second paragraph (new paragraph introduced after list
     discussion)
   - Clarified what 'change in state' means: it is a change in the
     value of an attribute
   - Do not discuss configuration, or define static or dynamic state;
     might use informally

*** Abstraction

   - Discussed whether to define this term or not, or say it is
     dictionary definition. Agreed to remove

*** Virtualization

   Reworked definition at length. See document.

*** Data definitions

    Skipped revised definitions. These should be relatively
    uncontroversial and are result of discussions within the OGSA Data
    WG.

*** Reviewed status of other terms

    Discussed and agreed to delete the following terms:

    - Grid component: eventually needed but a more precise definition
      will be provided by the RM-WG
    - {Commercial, Technical,} Enterprise applications
    - Enterprise grid
    - VMM
    - acyclic digraph
    - Grid computing
    - ... 

    Agreed to discuss further on a call:
    - Network element
    - Pool

* Security - AOGS-AuthZ

  [Minutes: Michel Drescher]

- Frank Siebenlist summarises AuthZ sessions at OGF
- Discussions are reported around caching session management
- Collaboration progress report by Frank
  -- Authorisation call out interface
  -- Concept of obligations (identifiers to call-out handlers)
  -- Obligations need to be standardises for the PDP [PEP?] needs to
     know them
  -- complete certificate representation in the rtequest context
  -- for this, the attribute names under which those certificates are
     registered need to be standardised, too
- Hiro: Caching session management, is there another standardisation
  group like OASIS that takes care if this?
  -- Frank: Not Grid specific indeed, but there is no group in OASIS
     known that standardises similar technology such as XCAML
- Hiro: This is very important and basic issues, but why does the
  WS-Security group does not care about this?
  -- Frank: [...]
- Hiro: AuthZ discusses an architecture document, is there a roadmap
  for such document?
  -- Frank: The group thinks there is still more discussion required
     before going into the details of this document
- D. Snelling: What's the timescale for the plans?
  -- Frank: I don't know. THe standardisation of the attributes
     mentioned above are foreseen to be finished in the next couple of
     months.  The CVS document is much more complicated document which
     will require considerately more time.
- D. Snelling: There is nothing more recent in the AuthZ group other
     than GGF14. Can you give us a pointer to more recent versions?
  -- Frank: Indeed - there is also no documents referenced in the
     meeting info for OGF20. I will send out the relevant documents
     that were posted on the AuthZ mailing list to the OGSA mailing
     list.

* OGSA EMS Scenarios 

  [Minutes: Andreas Savva]

  - The document has finished public comment. It has been updated and
    also completed the a final call on the list
  - Agreed that there is no problem with resubmitting the document to
    the OGF Editor for publication

* OGSA Information Model and Information Services

  [Minutes: Andreas Savva]

  - Confirmed that Laurence Field has permission to lead the
    Information Services design team
  - NorduGrid/KnowARC will look into providing more participation and
    perhaps put a name forward as a co-leaded of this team
  - The overall plan moving forward is to arrange teleconference slots
    on OGSA calls; set up the design team and possibly propose a new
    WG at the next OGF

  AI-0511a: Ferenc Szalai to confirm NorduGrid/KnowARC participation
    and potential co-leader of IS design team.

** Adrian Toth presentation on Requirements
   (See uploaded separate notes)

   - Aggregate all information, or select which information should be
     aggregated
     - Does IS need to understand the contents? Main concern with
       scalability and performance.
   - Is it just to deliver information? Need also to decide whether
     push or pull model or both
   - Aggregate information and then how to query it. XQuery as a
     candidate. 
   - Agreed to give Ravi some time to repeat part of his presentation
     from the JSDL XQuery session
   - Lifecycle of information and problem with it always being
     out-of-date because of distributed nature of the grid
   - Logging or provenance information should be separate but probably
     in similar infrastructure
   - Uniform type of aggregation?
     - Doing more than collect and aggregate might require some common
       base aggregation types to enable aggregation without needing to
       understand all the content
   - Snapshot of the whole is not possible; but it should be possible
     to take partial snapshot efficiently
   - Discussed whether general or specialized IS is necessary and what
     the problems with scalability etc are. Main concern with the
     general approach is that it might lead to lower performance.
   - 'General' should really just mean:
     - same information model; same (or similar) interfaces; and
       different performance characteristics, specific to domain
   - Agreed that goal is not to design an information system; but to
     identify the interfaces, info model etc. Building an information
     model is a different exercise.
   
** Ravi's presentation on XQuery 

   - slide 7: similar to CMDB? CMDB is a concept. This could provide
     same functionality.
   - slide 8: it should be possible to set lifetime; but lifecycle is
     more complicated because it depends on environment etc
   - slide 10: both DB and XML DB and this drives the requirement for
     XQuery because it can provide same functionality as SQL
     - data is synchronized between stores; just looks like a single
       db
     - primary form is XML; incoming data is XML and it updates
       relational db
     - relational db is for large queries and to provide better
       performance
     - Aggregate is based on what clients require
   - slide 13: access control? What kind of information can be 'seen';
     for subscription, etc.
   - How many machines: 400 at the time.

   - Relation with OGSA RSS? Could be implemented as query front end
     to this kind of information service.
     - RSS in its current incarnation does JSDL rewriting in addition
       to querying
   - Should this be a different interface or one for answering a
     particular set of questions?
     - Perhaps decompose interface as separate query and rewrite for
       jsdl; rather than an interface that refines jsdl
   - ...

** InfoD connection

   - Need to check what INFO-D has done in this area because it has
     been designed for this kind of problem. There is a short and
     dense document published
   - If it does not fit requirements might be worth pursuing changes
     to INFO-D
   - INFO-D does not use a specific language for the filter

   Chris K is the primary contact for information regarding INFO-D but
   the IS team should be the one to look into whether INFO-D satisfies
   requirements

* Participants Changes

  Leaving: 
  - Jem Treadwell
  - Ferenc Szalai
  - Sergio Andreozzi
  - Laurence Field
  - Bridge: Frank Siebenlist 

  Joining: 
  - Reagan Moore
  - Bridge: Fabio Benedetti 

* Workflow
  
  [Minutes: Michel Drescher]

  - Chris K recaps the workflow session that were held at OGF20
  - Adrian now gives a presentation about WfMC, Workflow Management
    Correlation (http://wfmc.org)
  - WfMC is a member of OASIS and OMC
  - XPDL and Wf-XML/ASAP standards exist
  - workflow design patterns, terminology and glosary are available
  - Workflow interop levels
    -- no interop
    -- coexistence
       --- no standard approach
   --- products share execution environment
   --- human interaction
    -- Unified Gateway
    -- API
    -- Shared definition formats
       --- XPDL 2.0 is proposed for use in OGSA
  - 4 abstract interop abstract models defined
  - Nested synchronous sub-process
  - XPDL vs BPEL
    -- XPDL is abstract, BPEL is concrete
    -- many similarities
    -- different, yet complementary

  - AI-0511b: Michel to pulla workflow strawman poposal together

  - Abdeslem presents a couple of slides on OGSA and workflow
    -- Basic aspects
       --- Addressing instantiation, hosting, deployment, etc
    -- Differential aspects
       --- Managing state
   --- Asynchronous comms
   --- human interaction, is it possible?
  - Example: BPEL
    --- abstract and executable processes
    --- a workflow is exposed as a web service
    --- asynch PtP comms using events
  - Example: Microsoft WF
    -- Based on XAML or .NET
    -- suppots basic aspects as described above
    -- plus, it allows direct programming as code snippets in the WF
    -- can be exposed as a web service
    -- Export/Import WS-BPEL
  - OGSA perspective
    -- worflows are services
    -- abstract process definition
    -- What's the OGSA scope?
  - The group enters an open discussion
  - Macro style extension of BPEL is not possible, such would be BPEL 
    sub-processes
  - If using BPEL would restrict and make impossible certain features
    OGSA needs
  - OGSA already took the decision that workflow interop is out of scope
  - The group discusses whether OGSA should endorse BPEL and move on, or
    rather keep silend on workflow and orchestration
  - XPDL at first pass seem less appropriate
  - A big issue is the integration of workflows with the current/evolving
    security infrastructure
  - Probably best to write a primer/best practices on integrating BPEL with
    OGSA?
  - We have a need to compose several BES instances together
  - More important, composing BES instances and DMI instances together in
    order to meet the full JSL requirements (stage in, execute, stage out)
  - Executing an application can actually be observed as a workflow all by
    itself (provision, deploy, configure, instantiate, execute, etc.)
  - The group would like to collect a list of scenarios that describe
    workflows in greater detail
  - The group reached consensus to create a Community Practice track document
    summarizing the experiences taken so far with workflows.

* Participant Changes

  Leaving: 
  - Abdeslem Djaoui
  - Hugo Mills

* General session

  [Minutes: Andreas Savva]

** Document status updates

   Updates done by Hiro directly to the status presentation. Brief
   notes below only on major issues.

*** EMS

   OGSA EMS Scenarios was submitted to the OGF around noon and has
   been published in record time as GFD.106. There are two other
   candidate documents for the EMS design team but there are no firm
   dates associated with them and no work started.

  AI-0511c: Steve Newhouse volunteered to look into the possible next
            documents for the EMS Architecture and draw up a proposal

*** Interoperability 

    The interoperability session during OGF20 raised a number of
    questions about the commitment of the parties. There seems to be
    backtracking from the initial agreement.

    There is also another cloud due to the new profile
    proposals. Other specifications mentioned in that session are in
    the process of doing their own interoperability and do not require
    an OGSA-led effort. 

    There is no consensus that this interoperability testing is
    needed.

[Participant Changes: Leaving: Fred Brisard]

** Tasks

   Updates to the tasks by Hiro directly to the presentation slides

** F2F discussion

   According to the (partial) results of the zoomerang survey the best
   dates are Aug. 13-15. Some late submissions to the zoomerang
   (Andreas) were not included, however.

   Discussed and produced a tentative F2F agenda to be uploaded by
   Hiro to gridforge.

   AI-0511d: Hiro to do another zoomerang to confirm summer F2F dates

** Teleconference schedule

   - Discussed the time slots and various proposals for different
     times and decided to leave as is
   - Discussed topics and updated in line; hiro will upload and
     need everyone to confirm 
   - Agreed that having a logistics slot every week is too
     much. Agreed to put three logistics slots every 4 weeks; leaving
     one week between a Thursday and a Monday slot.

** Leadership

   - Discussed and drew up a short list of candidates:
     - Andrew Grimshaw
     - Chris Kantarjiev
     - Steven Newhouse

   The candidates that were present were asked to consider the time
   commitment involved. Hiro will contact Andrew Grimshaw.

   