OGSA Interim Meeting #14 - April 4, 2006 - Day 4 morning
========================================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva  (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Michel Drescher  (Fujitsu)
  Allen Luniewski (IBM)
  Steve McGough  (Imperial)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jem Treadwell (HP)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Review of Webcast slides

  - Jem will drive process to completion for the slide deck. In
    particular make sure there are regular uploads and notifications.
  - Agreed to do one capability as a sample and then ask people to
    contribute the rest.
  - Reviewed and edited slides: See Jem's slides. Actions below:

  Action: Jay/Jem/<your name here> to provide three examples of
          customers grid deployments/usages (without
          attribution/names) in two dimensions:
          - HPC, collaboration, (data) sharing
          - commercial, scientific, multi-organizational/public(community)
            
  Action: Andreas and Steve to do one slide on JSDL introduction and
          one slide on CDDLM in introduction/relation to JSDL
  
        Use box (shape) with JSDL label and CDL relationship
            - jsdl box with a platform that fits
            - and one that doesn't with cdl being used as the
              blueprint to drive the shaping of an appropriate slot

  - Action: Hiro to sort out the figure/schedule etc on Slide 65 (OGSA
    schedule).


- Roadmap 1.1 discussion

  - The scale of changes depends on the changes in other
    specifications
  - Need to work out the relationship with the GGF Roadmap effort
  - Agreed to a first draft by August and to submit to GGF Editor by
    GGF18
  - Start also adding what gaps exist and identify needed specs
  - Start sending initial mails requesting material. But only start
    working on this after the webcast is finished

