OGSA January 2006 Interim Meeting
=================================

  Location: Sunnyvale, CA
  Date:     20/1/2006, morning
  
* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto
  Jem Treadwell
  Fred Maciel
  Chuck Spitz
  Fred Brisard
  Allen Luniewski
  Dave Berry
  Neil Chue Hong
  Steve McGough
  Andreas Savva
  Dave Snelling
  Takuya Mori

  Notes: Andreas Savva

* GGF Roadmap introduction

  - Dave's presentation on the GGF Roadmap
    https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/GGF_Roadmap_Overview/en/1

  - It would be nice to have an online page describing the overall GGF
    spec map (big picture slide) with links that map to each spec
    (draft or public)

  - A GGF Roadmap WG may be formed to create the GGF Roadmap
    document. This document is expected to be released periodically.

  - There is an online repository of GGF WG information
    http://www.ggf.org/gf/group_info/roadmap.php

  - The Working Groups will be encouraged to update their milestones
    around each GGF. It is not a requirement to get GGF time slots but
    it is a good milestone.

* OGSA Communication

  https://forge.gridforum.org/projects/ogsa-wg/document/OGSA-communication-20060120/en/2

  - (p3) List of all groups that OGSA would like to see involved; not
    complete yet.

  - List of groups that would be needed might also be a good thing to
    have? (But this is 'Planning' more than 'Communication')
  
  - OGSA outreach session; lower attendance last time; considering
    options like 
    - Town hall (asked not to call it that)
    - Presentation from projects on what they'd like to see in OGSA
    - Or other groups on how their spec combines or not with ogsa
    - A panel <CHOICE FORMAT>
      - applications?
      - ogsa adoption
      - working with ogsa <CHOSEN TOPIC>
        - JSDL, EGEE, DAIS as initial candidates
    - Or ask people to come and ask questions.

  - Need to also have updated presentation material (and keep them up
    to date)

  - Israel presentation (around GGF16)
    - Ravi might be able to do it at some point. Hiro to confirm.

  - Webcast
    - Audio and slides is probably sufficient
    - It should be done wrt one of the ogsa {1.0, 1.5} documents so
      that the equivalent specs are also available. Trying to keep up
      to the latest state of group activities is not doable.
    - Ask andrew to record the audio portion (Dave S to do)
    - Jem to check if he can get an HP slot for doing a webcast

  - Road show / company visit
    - Depends on opportunities presented 
      - In other words do not actively seek out, mainly for budgetary
        reasons.

  - TM/SM
  
  - Wikipedia OGSA entry: (Jem and Andreas)
  
  - Branded domains might be a good idea to suggest to GGF
    - E.g., ogsa.ggf.org
    - It does not cost any money to GGF to do this
    - And could be a good place to put the (planned) wiki for each
      group there.
    - (Note that JSDL-WG already has a wiki on its own domain; DRMAA
      also had its own domain.)

* EU data grid collaboration discussion

** Background

   The EU is funding a working group to report on the work in several
   EU data grid projects and to encourage collaboration between them.
   Michael May, the co-chair of the group, is keen to see the group
   provide some input to GGF.  He suggested that later in the year,
   perhaps September, they will have a report that could form the
   basis of a joint meeting.  One possibility is for the group to
   write up various use cases.

** Discussion
  
  Considering contributing by submitting use cases to OGSA. OGSA use
  cases are currently managed by EG-RG however. Use Cases to be based
  on that group's template and submitted to that RG.

  Do not expect a single consistent point of view from this group; it
  is mainly for sharing information. Also do not expect that all
  projects in this group will adopt OGSA.

  Some joint session at a future GGF is a possibility.

  - Dave B will contact Michael May for the use case possibility and a
    possible joint session

  - There are a number of other groups besides the Data group funded
    by the EU. It may be worth trying to contact these also.
  
  See also http://www.scai.fraunhofer.de/1451.0.html

* Glossary 1.5 review

  Quick review of some terms:

  - Agreed to delete portType since it is not used
  - Added data federation, 
  - Use Case, Scenario pending on Andreas

* OGSA document schedule

  - Profile definition published recently (GFD.59)
  - WSRF BP back from public comment (one comment)
  - Secure Channel and Core; reviewed, need revision and will review
    again. Planning a final call next Friday. (First week of february)
  - OGSA 1.5 and Glossary 1.5
    - Plan to get at least in final call by GGF16; hopefully in the
      GGF pipeline by that time also.
  - Information model (container)
    - It will take longer than the schedule (PC: May/GGF17)
    - It could be information track and formally adopted in
      DMTF. There is an interesting 'cross-dependence' on
      implementation status (Fred M to explain in how-to document)
    - Discussed what is an appropriate document type in more
      detail. Main questions should be what is the process we want it
      to go through for approval? The answer is then clearly that it
      should be a recommendation track document.
    - DMTF may still modify the GGF extension proposal
    - Look into asking DMTF to review it during the GGF public comment
      period to shorten the adoption cycle.

  - Future work 
    - Hiro's slides
    - Information services: need new contributor
    - There was a proposal to formalize the process of seeking new
      volunteers, perhaps using a gridforge feature or setting up
      something new on the GGF site.    

    - In the future encourage people to put f2f material up in advance