OGSA-WG Interim Meeting - 18-20 August 2004
============================================

* Participants

  Peter Ziu (Northrop Grumman)
  Jay Unger (IBM)
  Jeffrin Von Reich (HP)
  Ravi Subramaniam (Intel)
  Chris Smith (Platform)
  Frank Siebenlist (ANL)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Takuya Mori (NEC/ANL)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Allen Luniewski (IBM)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Keisuke Fukui (Fujitsu)
  Ian Foster (ANL)
  Michael Behrens (R2AD, LLC)

**  On bridge:

  Latha Srinivasan (HP)
  Jem Treadwell (HP
  Susan Malaika (IBM)
  Steve Crumb (GGF) 
  Dave Berry (NeSC)

** WSDM cross-WG session

  Alan Weissberger (NEC)
  William Vambenepe (HP)
  Igor Sedukhin (CA)
  Bryan Murray (HP)
  Heather Kreger (IBM)
  Mitsunori Satomi (Hitachi)

Minutes: Andreas Savva

* OGSA Marketing (bubble) diagram

  GGF wants some accompanying explanatory text for the bubble diagram.
  Consulted with Steve Crumb on what's needed.

  - An introductory paragraph on the architecture: use case driven;
    industry focused; and why architecture is needed (use
    Andrew+Dave's draft from some time back as a start)

  - One paragraph per capability (large bubble); not necessarily
    explaining or even mentioning all 'services' (smaller bubbles)

  - It's ok to go more than one page of text if necessary. The length
    will be adjusted later.

  - The smaller bubbles are not correct wrt OGSA v1. 
    - Discussed and agreed that there is no need to fix the names;
      bubble diagram doesn't have to be consistent with OGSA v1

  Action: Form a sub-group and produce explanatory text by Sep 1.
    - Volunteers: Andrew, Andreas, Jay, Ravi, Jem...
    - Use the draft that Andreas started. (Andreas to give copy to
      Andrew > Done)

* Preparation for cross-WG session with WSDM 

  (See WSDM cross-wg discussion further down for continuation/resolution.)

  - Discussion kicked off from management in OGSA v1.0 slide

  - A question was raised on whether the types of management are
    really as discrete as the figure (OGSA v1) seems to imply.

  - WSDM has start/stop. Is this basic functionality or following (the
    OGSI paradigm) something is there or not; and if it's there you
    can find things about it, e.g., how to start/stop it.

    [ 
    - A side discussion on whether the mechanism of how things get
      created (factory) is out of OGSA scope or not?
    - What is returned is an EPR (i.e., that there is a representation
      of the 'thing' that can be used)
    ]
    
  - Need for a base manageability type that is pervasive 
    - E.g., discover & (bring into existence and make it go away) 
    - And it seems that WSDM are doing one layer above what OGSA is
      after. E.g., the state diagram (and start/stop)

    - Manageability aspect not as a base but a 'side' or one aspect

  - Andrew is planning to do a naming white paper for distributed
    systems (MS)
    - Identity and mapping to EPRs; concern that if done separately by
      adding some property it will be done in different (incompatible)
      ways.
    - Is identity the responsibility of the endpoint or not?
      - Assigning identity and authenticating are different aspects
    - Uniqueness (or not); typically not
      - Are they AKAs; or 
      - Are they separate identities (aliases)
    - Identity is not (necessarily) address
      - And how does it relate to EPRs
    - There is a normative way of comparing references in the latest
      W3C submission of WS-Addressing.
      - http://www.w3.org/Submission/2004/SUBM-ws-addressing-20040810/
      - 2.4 Endpoint reference comparison
      - But it is unclear if this is really helpful
    - Data design team also had naming requirements; they would like
      OGSA to do something about it.

  Action: Create a design team on naming/identity to determine
          requirements
    - Andrew to lead
      - Write up scope
      - Send invitation as first step and arrange a teleconference
    - Volunteers: Ian, Frank, Jay, Ravi, Jeffrin, ...
    - Ask Jeff Frey, Dave Snelling, Steve Graham
    - Ask WSDM to join the design team (they are working on naming
      too) > Heather, Igor, William
    - Ask for UK e-Science volunteers
    - Lots of schemes to review: DNS, JNDI, handle.net, UDDI, etc
      - Make a list of these as a parallel first step.
    - End result is a white paper by Sep 7
    - Then have to decide how to proceed (WG, which standards body, etc)

* OGSA v2 discussion and how to proceed

  - Go to more detail versus step back and try to do a refactoring
    - Might have to go one level down before we can do a refactoring
    - What's the next step?
      - As architecture group preference is to step back 
      - But also need to go on to detailed work to show progress

  - Detailed work is to some extent already being done by other groups
    - Do not necessarily fit in OGSA in a natural way
    - Some WGs are willing to adapt (e.g., by considering OGSA
      requirements)

  - Spinning design teams out to WGs is an option
    - Doing so quickly may end up being a problem if the architecure
      is not reconciled first.
    - Is it important for a group doing OGSA related work to be 'OGSA
      sactioned' or not?
      - (Consensus towards not; but would prefer some involvement.)
    - Some WGs are working independently and we are saying we are
      using their work (WSRF, WSN, etc)
      - And they may have there own idea of the architecture they fit
        in

  Resolved: Get more input from other external sources
            - And who should participate to make effort successful
            - What do we need to do to get broader industry
              participation
            - This is more than just asking people to review OGSA v1;
              in a sense it is evangelizing.

            ** Unclear how to go about this; first step is to work out
            ** whom to contact and how to go about it. 

            - CIOs (e.g.,pharmaceutical companies, (end users))
              - Probably need a short introductory document for this
                purpose 
            - Grid architects 
              - Would be acceptable to give them a longer document;
                but may not need the more detailed explanation on
                services.
            - Chris and Andrew had ideas about who to contact.

            [
            - Some side discussion on how far industry approval should
              also drive what is part of OGSA
            ]
            
  Resolved: Start on a refactoring of the architecture first
            (and do not start any new WGs at this point; pending on
            next proposal)
            ** Data and EMS should be the first ones to refactor **
            - Prioritize refactoring: Start with EMS; Ravi to lead
            - Ravi also to look at taking things one level deeper with
              EMS.
 
  Resolved: Start new WGs (or coopt existing ones) to do work that is
            mature enough to be spun out of design teams
            ** Start off with spinning out just one WG **
              - Topic, scope and timescale (something simple)
                - Need to be as concrete as possible when defining
                  tasks (and how they fit in OGSA)
              - Successful spin out requires what? 
                > It's a good idea to find out and "stack the deck" to
                > make sure that a spin out will be successful.
            - Choose a candidate probably from Data: GFS, DAIS, etc?
            - (EMS seems more complex than Data; defer for now.)

  - Above resolutions and implied actions are not mutually exclusive
    (but may end byt being so due to resource limitations)

** "OGSA Documents" document review

    Agreed that the content is ok, including the paragraph starting
    'In due course we expect to add Recommendation documents ...'
    
    - Key phrase is "In due course..."

    - What does it mean to be OGSA compliant?
      - Can we talk about OGSA recommendation document?
      - OGSA is not just the constituent specifications
        - But compliance comes in bits (interoperable implementations
          per specification)
        - And also need the implementations to make sure that things
          will actually work (before going too far; shouldn't let
          specification get too far ahead of implementation; and vice
          versa presumably)
      - Will need to be careful what OGSA endorses; endorsing the
        'wrong' spec might be more harmful than not endorsing a spec.
      - Include interactions or profiles; but comes down to
        interoperable implementations
    
    - Comment: recommendations need
      - 2 'interoperable' implementations; and
      - experience report to document interoperability

  Proposal: Make the "OGSA Documents" document an informational document
            (Postponed resolution for later)

  Proposal: The name of the document is confusing. Change the name of
            this document to "OGSA timeline" or "OGSA process"
            (Postponed resolution for later)

  Action: Andrew as Area director to look into getting an eighth
          question on the WG formation question list: "Relation to
          OGSA"

* WSDM cross-WG session
  
** EMS presentation
   <URL>

   p7: "resources that model processing": resources that can contain
       jobs ('containers')

   p11: fault tolerant requirements are pervasive? 
        - Some might not have any requirements. Those that do are
          unlikely have the same general requirements; different
          techniques depending on requirements.
  
   p13: BLAST is chosen as an example that is a simple enough

   p15: "job is a grid service": i.e., it is modeled as ws-resource. 

   - Distinction between job and job document
     - Job document can be represented as (or is equivalent to saying
       that it is) a resource property
     - At the moment the ogsa specification describes what is required
       functionally; may not state things in correct WSRF terms.
     - (Also distinction between what is the state and what is the
       state that you want to expose?)
     - Job document is a logical entity but might also have a 'real'
       incarnation as an xml document
   - Job manager encapsulates all aspects of executing a job or a set
     of jobs, from start to finish. (e.g., a workflow etc)

   - Is there a model of what is required to manage a 'running' job (a
     job that is in the system)?
     - Have not defined as a formal model; it is high level design
       only
     - A number of states are mentioned in the document
     - DRMAA has a job state model; it can be viewed as a state model
       for a specific job type (so subset of what EMS will need.)
     - Any work on monitoring the agreement etc.
       - Not going to that level at the moment.

** Q&A session
     
   - Management types (Resource management table)
     - (See preparation discussion)
     - Table puts things more discretely than intended. Talking about
       the 'same' resources; wsdm defines a set of base porttypes that
       should be extended to address higher level capabilities of the
       resource.
     - Domain specific resources can be defined; WSDM does not dictate
       what can be a resource
     - Figure was also trying to highlight the gray area where it is
       not clear if something is a functional interface or a
       manageability i/f (e.g., a job manager)
       - The manageability i/f is or should be an extension of WSDM
         base interface(s)
       - The functional aspect is not necessarily an extension of WSDM
         interfaces.
     - The distinction between functional or management 'capability'
       is not always clear.
       - May not be necessary to make clear distinction; better to
         think of it instead as extending a porttype.
       - (OGSA) Desire to draw line at 'things' that if they exist
         they are always about management.
     - WSDM would be interested to know if there are 'capabilities' or
       requirements that arise from 'capabilities' that cannot be
       represented by WSDM.
     - WSDM base manageability is identity; only required functionality.
       - Resource ID
       - This is the identity of the resource not of the interface.
       - identity is a URI (not a UUID)
       - unique in space and time
       - could use it as abstract name
       - can translate from EPR to resource id
       - considering whether to also define a registry (to support the
         translation from resource id to EPR)
         - (and then related question of how to find an appropriate
           registry to ask)
     - (Question on usage of the 'infrastructure' term; it is an OGSA v1 term.)

   - Identity/Name/Address
     - Identity, naming and statelessness are orthogonal issues; just
       being stateless doesn't remove the need to have a name or an
       identity.
     - What are the attributes required; and what is required for
       naming or for identity.
     - WSDM identity can be tested for equality; if equal it is the
       same; if not, further tests on capabilities to check whether it
       is the same or not.
     - Manageable resource needs to have a manageability endpoint;
       endpoint has an EPR.
     - Agreement on need of being able to go from name to address (and
       back)
     - EPR contains an address that is a URI; it doesn't have to be
       resolvable by DNS for example. It could be thought of as an
       abstract name; but that is not the 'expected' or typical
       'usage'
     - URIs if they are not using the 'normal' scheme are not
       resolvable

       [See earlier action on naming; and action to start naming
       design team with Andrew as lead.]
         
   - State diagram is optional; extensible; and multiple ones can be
     defined.

   - Event format
     - It is a message format; a wrapper
     - WSDm also defining a couple of specific events
     - Again extensible
     - (And also thinking of filtering based on message content as
       well as topics)
     - If a resource is emitting events then define what topics must
       be defined for receiving those events

     - Does OGSA-WG care about this in the timeframe of OGSA v2? 
       - Consensus is yes. Should be engaged early to make sure that
         we can use the same thing.

     Action: Heather to send details on events. 
             - Ravi and Andrew would like to be involved in this
               discussion.
     
   - Policy and negotiation
     - Too early to discuss this.
         

* Design team status

** EMS
   
   - Status update by Andrew
   - Completed reduced version for v1
   - Still have the more detailed version prior to v1
   - Main members: Andrew, Ravi, Chris
   - More people/groups were involved from time to time.
   - Ravi taking over team
   - Expect more interaction with GGF SRM area
   - CSF 
     - Relation to EMS? 
       - CSF could be one implementation of OGSA-EMS for legacy jobs.
     - (To be) contributed to GT4
     - Source is available on sourceforge
     - License is the same as the Globus license
     - Planning tutorial at GGF12; including on how to extend it to
       support other schedulers.
     - (Customers exist that might queue half a million jobs per
       submission; need to be able to support that kind of scenario
       before it can be used in production.)

** Data 

   - Status update by Andrew
   - Had a F2F in July
   - Developed a set of use cases in addition to the ones in the
     document.
   - Topics discussed:
     - Files, directories, caches, replication services, info
       dissemination, data movement (how to reduce overhead for data
       movement, e.g, by not introducing unnecessary copies.)
   - A strawman for proposals
   - A document proposal for OGSA ("OGSA Documents")
   - A question on how far some existing document/effort can be 'taken
     over' and used to develop a standard.
     - Example was JNDI; seems to be quite close to naming requirements
     - IP rights is the main question; will the owner agree to the
       standards organization's IP policy
   - Service description and then how an API might look like
   - A number of issues for OGSA (more general than data)
     - Naming
     - Factories: no formalized way of instantiating things
     - Migration
     - Change management
     - multi-valued functions (return more than one result to possibly
       more than zero party)
     [
        - Multi-valued functions 
          - multiple results and the ability to send results to
            multiple services
          - can be done via proxy and composition (overhead)
          - Is this something that can be done with wsdl at the moment
            (and specialized interactions)
     ]   

     - Where to find information on what OGSA has discussed and
       decided
       - Philosophy, design, (anything else that might be important)


  - Some people seem to have the impression that OGSA-WG decisions are
    'opaque.'
    - Everything is made public. You can find almost anything in the
      minutes or on gridforge.
    - Not necessarily easy to find to find things on gridforge

   Proposal: A set of notes each detailing a decision and its
             rationale (Architecture (AR) notes) 
             - Doesn't have to be very long
             - Must be done in a collaborative manner to spread the load
             - And how to disseminate these (make them easy to find)
             
   Action: Andrew to check with Data team if such a mechanism would be
           appropriate to solve this problem.

** Security

   - Status update by Frank
   - Teleconference
     - Couldn't get enough people to come to calls 
   - BoF like session at GGF11 (focus on OTP)
   - Workshop at GGF12
   - At the moment people seem more interested in implementing; and
     only afterwards to go to GGF for standardization
     - Also a lot of the work is not done in GGF (instead it is in
       OASIS, etc). (Impression that GGF is not the place to do
       security work.)
   - Approach:
     - Design team focus on higher level requirements more closely
       related to Grid, e.g., VO requirements, lifecycle management,
       use cases, naming and security
     - Also possibly later on
       - Security attribute service and security provisioning service
       - Tie in between languages that specify job or agreements and
         security

   - Current members: Frank, Takuya
   - Interested to join: Chris, (Andreas), Ravi

** Resource Management

   - Status update by Fred
   - AKA CMM
   - Short version of CMM doc in OGSA v1
   - Long version to be submitted to GGF Editor soon (almost final
     version for GGF11)
   - Also working with WSDM and DMTF 
   - Scope or definition of 'resource mgmt'
     - If everything is a resource would management also include
       things like migrate, reserve a resource, etc.
     - Resource itself might not be able to do such functions on its
       own; might have a manager or some manageability (interface?) 
       that drives a native capability.
     - Think of these as more 'functional'
     - It's out of scope for the design team to define 'functional'
       interfaces like migration and reservation
   - Design team also has RM folder under OGSA-WG; to start uploading
     things there too.

** Information Services

   - No representative present (Fred gave short overview)
   - Seems fairly advanced but in paused state right now
   - Spawned Logging WG
   - Seems to suffer form similar problem with security (not enough
     members)
  
   Action: Frank to ask Ian for an MDS representative to join the team

** Self-management

   - Current members: Jeffrin, Andreas, Jeff
   - To join: Andrew (to get a member of his team), Jay,...
   - Initial work resulted in OGSA v1 text
   - Presentation at GGF11
   - Not much activity since
   - For v2 need to refine and make the current text more concrete;
     think about what services/interfaces are involved
   - No user requirements; at the moment use cases
   - Probably initial interactions with EMS

   - Comment on v1 text: A service can have self-managing aspects and
     also be part of a larger self managing activity

   Action: Jeffrin to keep track of this (or upload to public
           comments)
   
   Action: Jeffrin to schedule a call and announce on the list

* Prioritize sections/areas to cover in v2

  [This was fairly short session without a lot of discussion; probably
  needs more work.]

  - Naming 
  - Security model; simple model that clearly separates policy from
    mechanism
  - WSDM relation and how we use it
    - e.g., Events
  - How context is propagated
  - Clearer definition of data model
  - Commonality between EMS and Data (refactoring) 
  

* GGF12 session plan review

  - EMS session (Tuesday)
    - Conflict with GSA is ok
    - Conflict with JSDL not ok for Chris and Andreas
    - Tuesday is not good for Ravi 

    - Agreed to use 90 minutes within this slot (09:00 - 10:30) and
      re-schedule the other 90 minutes at a different time; try to
      exchange with another design team.
     
    Action: Hiro and Ravi to talk with other design teams and
            arrange re-schedule.

  - Security Sep 22 3:30-5:00 session is ok
    - No phone bridge available; not a problem

  - Design team report on last day
    - Frank is leaving early; Takuya will give the security team
      report

  - Confirmed: 
    - Data: Dave (& Andrew)
    - EMS: Ravi (& Chris)

  - Naming design team 
    - Need to arrange for a new slot; decided to fit in existing ones
    - Naming is part of Information services (in OGSA v1); Naming also
      has relation to security
    - Agreed to put cover naming within Information design team (half
      session)
    - And security aspects of naming in security session (another half
      session)

    Action: Hiro to confirm with Information design team

  - CMM cross-wg session is ok.

* ACS plans presentation
  
  - Presentation by Keisuke
  - Planning a BoF at GGF12
  - Application Contents Service:
    - Described in OGSA v14
  
  - Would like an ID to be able to compare what is installed with what
    is available in the repository
    - ID not shown but it exists
  - Archive may be very large; may cause problems if it has to be
    transfered as one unit (e.g., insufficient resources to stage
    in). Might want to provide an interface to transfer in parts.
    - E.g., logical operation is 'get'; an interface to implement that
      operation may be 'get parts'
    - This might be also be thought of as a protocol level issue; so
      not visible in the interface.
  - (Reference to Mike Lewis dissertation)
  - Can parts be updated separately? >yes
  - (Content compression or consistency(signatures))
  - IBM Intelligent Application Orchestrator (TIO) has similar
    information (dependency between applications required)
  - There is a functionality spectrum: from just a package to
    deployable functionality
    - This is aimed towards the low end; interface to repository and
      package.
  - Some related work (Solution Installation Schema) by IBM & Novell &
    InstallShield & etc was recently submitted to W3C
    - It is an effort from IBM On Demand; doesn't take into account
      provisioning
  - (Ian) Also interested in this topic; but seems to be fairly
    complex topic; not sure if OGSA can take it on (within group)
  - (Peter) Also working on use cases related to this topic.
    - Might want to specify 3-tier systems in detail and exactly where
      you want things to be laid out; to make sure policy or security
      issues are addressed.
  - Spec might be simple if it is just 'carton and packing list'; if
    it covers more functionality then it might quickly get more
    complex.
  - Intention is to keep things as simple as possible initially
  - (Andrew) Might also want to think of the archive as a
    specialization of work done in data > (relation to refactoring
    work)
  - (Jeffrin) Seems related to CDDLM. Identify interactions and
    relations with CDDLM.
    - OGSA v14 text listed part of the expected
      interactions. Intention is not to overlap with CDDLM but to
      build on that work.
  [
  - Doubt that service level provisioning it feasible
    - This is trying to address a simpler issue.
  ]

  Action: Andreas to upload presentation  to gridforge > Done.


* Roadmap discussion

  [See two related ppts on gridforge <URL>]

  - Identify dependencies and priorities we have received by the
    community
  - Also to help people looking from the outside on what is OGSA and
    what is happening
  - List of what is required and in what order
  - Intended audience: need to identify in more detail.

  Resolved: Roadmap document per design team and a document that
            links them for OGSA. OGSA document to also describe
            dependencies between the design teams' roadmaps.
            - And a one page powerpoint slide that shows the overall
              map (and dates)
            - All the documents are internal to ogsa-wg
            - While the one page powerpoint slide is public
            (See also roadmap-process ppt)

  - Agreement that it is ok continue working on higher levels based on
    the expection of specs at lower level that will define some needed
    functionality; as long as there is a description of what can be
    expected of the lower spec (in terms of requirements).

  - Create an ordering of the specs 
    - (and how easy it is to do things; which are the low hanging
      fruits)
  
  Proposal: That roadmap should be independent of the dependencies
            (but should include the dependencies) 
            - (Essentially milestones; but need to do more work before
              that can be done.)

  - Agreed that relations and dependencies with other groups need to be
    explicitly spelled out:
    - What we will work with them or defer to them, priorities,
      etc. Document decisions and what they imply and who is doing
      what.
    - Need to communicate to them our requirements. This is not just
      liaison work; someone should 'own' that piece of work.
      - E.g., a joint work/document or some more explicit
        understanding

    - In the case of WSDM we have identitified:
      - Naming/identity
      - Events
      - EMS overlap (or EMS usage of WSDM) --- as an initial
        'application' area
      - (Metadata --- query to data design team)
  
  - (IP policy issues; when work is done in different standards bodies)

  [
  - One ppt was an attempt to map the area at the low end. Things that
    are needed for higher level work
    - Not added: Distributed state is one issue but cannot decide what
      model to use.

    - Discussed going up the stack or sorting the entries between
      those that fall in WS and those that don't. (Postponed for
      later)

  - Second ppt was an attempt to map the work and how it should be
    carried out.
  ] 

  Action: Jay to talk with Ian and Hiro to form a core design team to
          work on dependencies at architecture level (and roadmap)

* R2AD presentation
  <URL>

  - R2AD: Rapid Research Agile Development
  - Possibly not interoperable with grids but aim is to advocate/make
    grid & OGSA aware
  - Pending on funding starting October
  - grid.geden.org is the public site for this project
  - Really remote environment, e.g., ship 
  - Interested and want to participate in ACS
  - Expect 5 years to first deployment
  - p7: Not sure how accurate it is at the moment. But format looks
    like what is needed for the one page roadmap
  - Goal is to use standard software & facilitate adoption of standard
    software
  - XML based registration and deployment of components and automation
  - Security is a big concern. Especially authentication/integrity of
    components.
  - Government gets use rights to work (but collaboration is ok)
  
  Action: Jay to convert p7 from graphic to powerpoint and send to
          Andreas
          - Then have to update for OGSA (WS specs); also show
            optional/required

  Action: Jay to check status of WSIL

* Teleconference schedule

  - No call on Monday
  - Wednesday call to continue roadmap discussion and finalize GGF12
    plan if possible.


