OGSA January 2006 Interim Meeting
=================================

   Sunnyvale F2F, 17 January 2006 PM

Attendees
---------------
        Mark Morgan (Minutes)
        Hiro Kishimoto
        David Snelling
        Fred Maciel
        Jay Unger
        Jem Treadwell
        Dave Berry
        Stephen Newhouse
        Allen Luniewski
        Takuya Mori
        Andrew Grimshaw
        Tom Maguire
        Ellen Stokes
        Chuck Spitz
        Fred Brisard (*) 
        Darren Pulsipher (*)
        Andreas Savva (*)
        Steve McGough (*)
        Jim Pruyne (*)

  Bridge:
        Marvin Theimer (+)
        Savas Parastatidis (+)
        Marty Humphrey (+)
        Glenn Wasson (+)

(*) OGSA 1.5 session onwards
(+) WS-Management only

* WS-Management 

** Looks like there might be a reconciliation between the various
   camps (WS-Notification, WS-Eventing, WS-Management, etc.)
        - Still in a state where we aren't sure where it's going, but
          people optimistic
        - How does this influence the working group
        - What does it mean to have more then one protocol stack
        - May be premature to do something now when the
          reconciliation may be coming down the pipeline.
                -- We might want to wait for a few months on deciding
                   what this working group is going to do.
        - Are you talking about WS-CIM, or more then that?
                -- Specific things laying WSRF and WS-Notification on
                   top of the base protocols Microsoft has proposed
        - What do you think the form of reconciliation will be?
                -- premature to make any kind of a statement.
        - What do you mean by reconciliation?
                -- Isn't useful unless it turns into something that
                   people can use in terms of standards -- a way of
                   doing things.
        - At what point do we (OGSA-WG) attack a profile?  Now, or
          hold off for a period of time.  How important is that to the
          people who will be working on it?
                -- Marvin thinks the right thing to do is to wait a
                   couple of months (timebox it)
        - Marty says "We're not holding here"
                -- We're trying to look at what the reconciliation
                   might be
                -- Trying to anticipate this reconciliation
                -- Trying to study BES and ByteIO and see how the
                   reconcile stack applies to these two services
                -- Trying to do something productive
        - Exploring the questions of What-if is good
        - Can we proceed or not?
        - Does WS-Man make much sense in terms of Job Management
                - Well, except for obvious stuff like job status.

** Status Report from Marty's Group

   Conclusion is that if there isn't any significant change, we'll
   discuss again around GGF in Tokyo
	- MS team and Marty's group will wait and see how things
	  develop.
        - Marty's group to continue investigating - many interesting
          things they can do.
        - This seems like the discussion we had about whether to use
          OGSI or not.
        - That went away and we decided to use WSRF

* OGSA 1.5 review

  Led by Andreas Savva

        - Andrew to get Naming section to Andreas tomorrow after
          naming discussion.
        - Changes as per the document
        - A number of references removed from text and put into
          footnotes.
        - Can't mandate that transactions are honored.
        - Andrew wants to note that we should talk about a way of
          keeping places to talk about things like calling context.
                -- WS-Context not the same as that is a service that
                   you can go to to get context, not something carried
                   along with messages.
        - Need an Orchestration sub-section (along the same lines as
          Transactions)
        - Choreography and Orchestration do have different meanings.
          What's the difference here? The terms are defined in the
          Glossary also.
        - Figure 4 for EMS is misleading.  Posing a lot of confusions
          for people.
                -- General consensus is to remove the figure (Removed)
        - Can we fold in the stuff we talked about today into the
          Deployment and Configuration Service section?
                -- Leave it where it is, with added reference to the
                   Self-management: Provisioning section.
        - Do we want to update Figure 5?
                - Get rid of arrow from Job Manager to Service Container
                - Change Accounting Services to Logging
                - Do we want to put a sequence description (add step numbers)
                - Could also expand the Provisioning box

        - Dave B is also working on revising the Data section
          "Interactions with the Rest of OGSA".

* Glossary review

  Led by Jem Treadwell.

        - Discussed definition of Resource and made a number of
          revisions.
        - RFC 2396 has been superseded by RFC 3986

* WS-Agreement Overview for OGSA (GRAAP-WG)

  Presentation by Jim Pruyne

        - Update about what has happened since the last time presented
        - Public comment, round 2, complete
        - If you want to start using WS-Agreement, you don't have to
          change what you are already doing though there may be some
          benefit to combining the two together.
        - You pass in a document, get back an EPR
        - How would we use this in EMS?  We decided to punt for BES.
          Now that we have BES, one can imagine defining a service
          that exports an Agreement like interface that wraps a
          container.  On the other hand, you can use the EGEE approach
          and go a little higher (job manager) and do it.
        - Agreement adds some notions to standard stuff like times.
          That and guarantee terms.
        - Guarantee terms leads to the problem of specifying the QoS
          things that you are guaranteeing, how do you measure
          failures, etc.
        - What can BES do with WS-Agreement that would add value.
                -- Seems like we should start a new WG to define QoS
                   terms for job delivery and how do you characterize
                   penalty terms.
                -- That should be out of scope of BES and the Data
                   areas.
        - Summary
                -- We need more studies
                -- Just JSDL and WS-Agreement does not provide clear
                   benefit
                -- Can we build on the consensus from this morning
                -- We have a situation where we said that the lower
                   level CDDLM provisioning underneath the container
                   is something that the container, given that is
                   advertising capabilities, is something that the
                   container would like certainty about.  It might not
                   be a bad idea to have an agreement to that affect.
                -- It is NOT the case that everyone who has tried to
                   do something with Agreement has done it with the
                   same term space.
                -- Going to investigate applicability of WS-Agreement
                -- An interesting application that has a natural fit
                   here is Security. Dave S will discuss this proposal
                   with the Security team on Thursday.
