OGSA Telecon, 1 March 2007
8AM Eastern to 9AM Eastern

Attendees
---------------
	Mark Morgan (minutes)
	Ellen Stokes, IBM
	Chris Kantarjiev
	Michel Drescher
	Dmitry Vasyunin
	Adianto Wibisono
	Adam Belloum
	Bahareh Rahmanzadeh 
	Ali Anjomshoaa
	Steve McGough
	Hiro Kishimoto
	Jay Unger


* Action Item: Hiro to send Mark an email with the list of names of who was on the telecon

* Should the student doing the sociological study be allowed to take notes during discussions?
	- No objections on the telephone
	- Send the request to the mailing list
		-- Action Item:  Hiro to send out email

* Agenda Bashing
	
* Workflow
	- Michel presenting
		-- Jay suggests that we may want to support a fork control flow so that we can handle exceptions, etc.
		-- Job Groups?
	- The decision about where to run the mover job may be influenced by the job that you are moving data for.
	- Would the job manager see any dependencies, or just get a list of jobs
		-- You have to see the dependencies
	- We need use cases
	- Job's should produce resources, not data.  When the job is done, the BES container anounces the availability of that resource.
	- Everyone should come to F2F with use cases for workflow.