OGSA EMS Meeting @ Imperial College, London - 2 February 2005
=============================================================

*	Participants

	Mark Morgan (UVa)
	Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
	Dave Berry (National eScience Centre)
	Steven Newhouse (OMII)
	William Lee (Imperial College, London)
	Steve McGough (Imperial College, London)
	Abdeslem Djaoui  (Rutherford Appleton Laboratory)

	Minutes:	Mark Morgan

*	Abstract Names
	- Globally Unique in Space and Time
	- Cheap Equallity Test
	- OMII believes that Abstract Names should be typed and versioned
	- What is the sanity check for mapping this back into the GRAM world?
		> Mapping this architecture into xRSL seems variable viable.

* EMS Action Item -- defining state transitions and semantics.
	- Do we need to be able to ask a service container which states it
		supports?
	- Need to define semantics of the various statuses
	- Maybe we are lookin at this backword.
		> Instead should we be asking the service container, "Have 
			you passed this state yet?"
* This EMS information needs to be solcialized on both sides of the Atlantic.
	- We need to request a group to discuss and solidify this.
		> Part of what this group will have to do is specify what metadata
			terms to use and define those terms.
			-- This meta data should have similar naming as is in JSDL to
				avoid confusion.

* From an OMII perspective, having an abstract name is very LSID'ish.
	- Used heavily in myGrid.
	- Stick all of the meta data stuff into Grimoires

* EMS Application Descriptor may be similar to the ACS

* We'd like to form a BOF.
	- The charter is to take this and get a more concrete specification 
		> (timeline approx. 9 months).
	- Suggested Working Group People (participants)
		----------------------------
		Steven Newhouse		OMII
		Mark Morgan			UVa
		William Lee			London eScience Center
		Steve McGough		""
		Erwin Laure, Bob Jones	EGEE
		Chris Smith, Fritz Ferstl (through John Tolsford) (Platform, Sun)
		Bill Nitzberg		PBS
		ask Dave Snelling for a participant (for Unicore and Naregei)
		Andreas Savas		Fujitsu
			Globus (contact Ian)

	- Possible Chairs
		-------------------
		Mark Morgan			UVa
		Steven Newhouse		OMII
		* Other chairs to be considered as well

* When we write up the proposal, getting the JSDL people to proofread would
	be a useful idea.

* Two desired outputs
	- Charter
		> Get consenus
		> Fill out the speicifcation
		> Publish a proposed recommendation
	- Draft Specification (Pieces of the discussion)
