OGSA January 2006 Interim Meeting
=================================

  Location: Sunnyvale, CA
  Date:     18/1/2006, afternoon

* Naming session

** Roll Call

Session leader: Andrew Grimshaw, University of Virginia
Note taker: Dave Berry, NeSC

Around the table:
Mark Morgan, University of Virginia
Takuya Mori, NEC
Ravi Subramaniam, Intel
Tom Maguire, EMC
Stephen McGough, Imperial College
Andreas Savva, Fujitsu
Allen Luniewski. IBM
Neil Chue Hong, EPCC, University of Edinburgh
Chuck Spitz, Computer Associates
Fred Brisard, Computer Associates
Darren Pulsipher, Xango
Dave Snelling, Fujitsu Labs Europe
Jem Treadwell, HP
Jay Unger, IBM
Hiro Kishimoto, Fujitsu
Frank Siebenlist, Argonne
Fred Maciel, Hitachi USA
Chris Jordan, SDSC

Phone:
Stephen Davey, NeSC
Marvin Theimer, Microsoft

Apologies from Manuel Pereira, IBM (co-chair of OGSA-naming group)

* Agenda

RNS vs WS-Directory
WS-Naming


* RNS vs. WS-Directory

Andrew reminded us of the history of RNS.  We have been consulting
with GFS over RNS for about 2 years.

The latest RNS spec still contains an enumeration interface on the
lookup which clashes with other potential specs for enumeration.  It
entangles implementation details.  It includes the abstract naming
layer which clashes with WS-Names.

Dave Berry reported that the OGSA Data WG has told the GFS co-chairs
that it has concerns over the complexity of the spec.

Hiro reported that the RNS doc has been submitted to the GGF editor.
The Area Directors also believe that the spec is too biased towards
files.  The document is not going into public comment.

Chris Jordan reported that GFS have had some initial discussions in
response to these criticisms.  GFS will work over the next few months
to address the file system requirements for naming.

UVa (Mark Morgan) has implemented a lightweight implementation of a
service that would be an alternative to RNS for the human-level of
OGSA naming maps strings to EPRs.  This is called WS-Directory.

WS-Directory supports hierarchy by recursion - an entry in a directory
may point to another WS-Directory service.

The goal is not per se to resolve names to EPRs.  The goal is to
support humans who which to give structured names to the things they
are interested in.

Ravi noted that WS-Directory might not be the best name.  This
interface could be embedded in other services to resolve other types
of names.

Ravi asked why the interface support a reverse lookup, for find the
EPRs that the WS-Directory knows about.  This could be possible.
Everyone agreed that this would not work if the resource referenced by
the EPR had to keep track of the directories that pointed to them.

WS-Directory does not currently store any properties with its entries.
To get properties you have to contact the actual service.  This would
have efficiency problems.  In the file system domain this would
probably not be acceptable.  one alternative would be to map from
strings to an XML document; another would be to add metadata into the
EPR itself.  Jay suggested that strings could map to a pair of EPRs,
one for the resource and one for the metadata document, but this also
involves extra invocations.

If metadata is stored with the directory service, issues of coherence
arise.  It also potentially gives the possibility of lookup on the
metadata.

Jay noted that this is similar service groups.  Mark replied that he
implemented this as service groups but that turned out to be more
complicated.  Dave Snelling reported that service groups are going to
be an OASIS spec next month.  Mark noted that Service Groups would
only apply using the WSRF stack.

Dave Berry noted that we need to consult users and establish
requirements.  Hiro noted that we need some concrete examples to work
with.

Frank suggested that we should just use URIs.  This would allow us to
use the same service as for resolving abstract names.  There was a
discussion about how this would map to the proposed WS-Directory
scalable services, e.g. whether all strings passed to WS-Directory
should be wrapped as URIs.  There was disagreement whether strings are
subsets of URIs or URIs are subsets of strings, which was resolved
when people understood that the set of all strings is greated than the
set of all URIs, but that strings encoded as a "freetext" schema of
URIs will be a semantically-encoded subset of all URIs.  Particular
tools might encode strings as particular URI schemas, e.g. "file:".
There was some detailed discussion about implementation implications.
[Note: to first order, this discussion is orthogonal to the choice of
RNS, WS-Directory or Service groups].

Andrew asked whether two occurrences of a URI "freetext://A" have to
denote the same EPR, given the definition of a URI requires
uniqueness, e.g. for nested lookups of the path "/A/A/...".

Andrew suggested a process to take this forward.  OGSA-naming is
chartered to work in this area; in the past it has attempted to do
this via RNS.  OGSA-naming could take WS-Directory forward, could look
again at service groups, or take a revised version of RNS.


* WS-Naming

Changes since last OGSA F2F:

- WGs must not mandate use of WS-Names

- An abstract name must be an IRI not just a string.

- Abstract names are not mandatory in EPRs with resolvers; 

- EPRs may include a list of resolvers; there are no semantics
  involved in how elements of the list are chosen.

- There is agreement to disagree on whether to define how to generate
  unique names.

- While a client may choose to include an abstract name in the header
  of a message, a server must not rely on the presence of that
  information as some tooling might not support it.  If a server
  requires that information, it should be provided at a resource
  parameter.

- Some guidance will be provided on possible ways of generating unique
  names, with reference to a particular RFC.

Andrew asked whether the opinion of the OGSA WG was that the
specification should be submitted in its current form.

Dave Berry asked whether it has been established that a user community
exists for this specification.  Andrew said that University of
Virginia will use it, Marvin Thiemar says that MS HPC group will use
it, Frank said that Globus will implement some form of abstract name.

Frank noted that issues have not been recorded in a tracker so it is
hard to tell whether each issue have been discussed.  The GGF official
policy is that minutes of the necessary meeting should record
decisions taken.  Hiro checked the minutes of the relevant call and
found that some items had not been discussed.  We revisited this list.

Frank suggested that an EPR contains enough information for comparison
in a combination of the To: field and the reference parameters.  These
will be passed on the wire, unlike the abstract name which current
tooling might be passed on the wire.  So we could specify a mechanism
for assembling a unique abstract name by reassembling the information
from the address and the reference parameters.  There was a concern
that reference parameters might contain extra information that is not
part of the abstract name.

Dave Snelling noted that there are two requirements: to have an
abstract name and that the abstract name be available on the wire.
There are also two use cases: (i) auditing and (ii) clients.

Marvin said that as it is up to the server to check names that it
handed out, it can hand out duplicate addresses and resolve these
itself.  Frank replied that this would require a profile to specify
that sort of server.  Marvin explained that by including an abstract
name in an EPR, the server is implicitly asserting these semantics.

Andrew suggested that the spec should specify that for a service that
mints the EPR with an abstract name, that service asserts that the
EPRS it mints will not "get confused" when used by that service.
Regardless of how the service accomplishes this.

Jay suggested that for the above assertion to hold, the mechanism need
not be specified.  This doesn't meet the requirement that clients can
compare WS-Names; Ravi concurred.

Andrew noted four requirements (i) client comparison of EPRs (ii)
servers can move around and EPRs can be resolved (iii) servers must
not get confused (iv) things can be audited on the wire.

Frank suggested that we define a profile that all identity be
including in the "To" field. Jay objected that this prevents moving a
service.  Andrew objected that this would not work with existing
tooling.  Frank said that this does not remove the need for an
abstract name per se; it is just an equivalent (for a while) that is
on the wire.

Dave Snelling suggested that the unique name should be in the address,
and if this is not a map to an address, a resolver in the (WSDL of
the) EPR is invoked to find the actual address.

Andrew led a survey of how people think we should progress.  The rough
consensus was not to put this into public comment but to take forward
the discussion.  We should create a tracker to record issues.  We
would like to get the document read by some more, chosen, people.
