| OGSA F2F Session - October 19th 2007  - Primer
| ==============================================
| 
| * Participants

Hiro Kishimoto [Fujitsu]
David Snelling [Fujitsu]
Michel Drescher [Fujitsu]
Steven Newhouse [Microsoft]
Donnal Fellow ([U of Manchester]
Steven McGough [Imperial]
Fred Maciel [Hitachi]
Andrea Merzky [Louisiana State U]
Joel Replogle [OGF]


|   Minutes: David Snelling

| * Discussion Andrew Leading:

- Overview of Primer Motivation and Purpose.
- Document walk through

- ISSUE: Should we retain Self-Management section.
- CONSENSUS: Leave the bullet, but make it explicit that we don't drill down.
- ACTION: Hiro to edit document on the fly - Done.

- ISSUE: Implication of WSRF exclusivity.
- SN: Only WSRF is listed and the use of "services" is inconsistent.
- The listing of spec names is because these are from outside OGF.
- CONSENSUS: Remove the detail section in the bullet.
- ACTION: Hiro to edit document on the fly - Done.

- ISSUE: Addition of WS-Addressing summary.
- Andrew read out new summery
- No objections raised.

- ISSUE: Need to add some definitions to this section.
- Extract these from the Glossary
- Resource, Service, etc.
- ACTION: Andrew to add definitions of Resource, Service, etc. to introductory section of the Drill Down.

- ISSUE: Add pointers into the V1.5 Document.
- ACTION: Andrew to add pointers into the V1.5 Document.

- ISSUE: Removal of RSS and other stuff to trim the execution management section.
- CONSENSUS: Leave it out for this version.

- ACTION: Steven to write a section on HPCBP.

- Andrew will be cutting back the security session. This will need reviewing at a later call. 

- ISSUE: Need to add DMI references
- ACTION: Michel add DMI references and content to data section and use case.

| * Summary of New Actions

- ACTION: Hiro to edit document V5, wrt Self Management - Done.
- ACTION: Hiro to edit document V5, wrt WSRF references - Done.
- ACTION: Andrew to merge into V7 changes made by Hiro to V5 - Pending.
- ACTION: Andrew to add definitions of Resource, Service, etc. to introductory section of the Drill Down - Pending.
- ACTION: Andrew to add pointers into the V1.5 Document - Pending.
- ACTION: Steven to write a section on HPCBP - Pending.
- ACTION: Michel add DMI references and content to data section and use case - Pending.
- ACTION: Hiro to write Data Centre use case - Pending.
 
| * Minutes <<day month>> approved with [changes/no changes]

No minutes to approve at this session.

| * Action Item review

No actions to review at this session.