OGSA Interim Meeting (OGSA-16) - Day 2, afternoon
=================================================

  Date: 10 November 2006 (Friday), afternoon

* Participants

  Fred Brisard (CA)
  Michel Drescher (Fujitsu)
  Andrew Grimshaw (UVa)
  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  An Ly (CA)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Tom Maguire (EMC)
  Steve McGough (Imperial)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Andreas Savva (Fujitsu)
  Ellen Stokes (IBM)

  Bridge: Chris Jordan (SDSC), Chris Kantarjiev (Oracle), 
          Jay Unger (IBM)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Actions Summary

  AI-1110pm-a: Michel Drescher (OGSA-DMI-WG cochair) to check with the
               DMI WG the whether the abstract specification is
               informational.  (If this is not resolved in time to
               meet the Roadmap 1.1 submission schedule it may be ok
               to delete this entry.)

  AI-1110pm-b: Chris Jordan will send emails seeking updates to the
               Open Source entries. Also review the HPC Profile wiki
               for new additions.

* Roadmap 1.1 review

  Review of additions, changes and comments in draft 8.
  - Need to update document status spreadsheets
  
  - [p3 l.98] Only other WG doing OGSA architecture work is OGSA-Data
  - [p4] Added Guidelines document
  - Table 2 should be Figure 2
  - [p7] Comments by Franco Travostino. 
     - Discussed difference between compliance and interoperability
       and how they relate to each other. Agreed to leave text as is.
  - [p10, sec.3.7] Why is this DMI spec informational? 

  AI-1110pm-a: Michel Drescher (OGSA-DMI-WG cochair) to check with the
               DMI WG the whether the abstract specification is
               informational.  (If this is not resolved in time to
               meet the Roadmap 1.1 submission schedule it may be ok
               to delete this entry.)

  - HPC use case document schedule is not known. Need to query authors.
  - [p12] Modified expected publication dates. Hiro will check the
    rest of the dates. Experience document changed to Mar.2007
    - Interoperability document is also submitted 
  - [JSDL entry] CIM 2.9: move status to adopted
  - [HPC Profile] Schedule/status is not clear. Need to query authors.
  - Agreed to remove the "Future profiles" section rather than try to
    track such documents. Ideally these would fit in a Gap Analysis
    section but such a section will not included in Roadmap 1.1.
  - [7.1 Liaisons] Agreed to remove WSDM as it has gone dormant. Also
    remove the WSRF/WSN liaison as that work is also practically
    complete.
  - [Open source projects] An update is needed.

  AI-1110pm-b: Chris Jordan will send emails seeking updates to the
               Open Source entries. Also review the HPC Profile wiki
               for new additions.

  - [Appendix A] Picture needs update since it doesn't fit
    text. Review once more after update

* OGSA Direction review

  In place of minutes Hiro updated directly the presentation
  material/spreadsheet and uploaded to gridforge.

  Updated the teleconference schedule
  - Discussed and rejected having an SML education teleconference
    because the IPR rules surrounding are not clear. In any case a
    call should probably be hosted by the SML group and not by OGSA.
  
  Discussed next F2F date/venue and tentatively agreed for the Week of
  March 26 at Santa Clara or San Diego.
