OGSA-19 Interim Meeting - 10 January 2008 - Interoperability
============================================================

* Participants

  Bahareh Rahmanzadeh
  Donal Fellows
  Andrew Grimshaw
  Ali Anjomshoaa
  Andreas Savva 
  Steven Newhouse
  Steve McGough
  Hiro Kishimoto
  Dave Snelling

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* WSRF BP Interop Activity Status report

  - Parties ready for Jan.22 interop
    - Unicore, Genesis II, USMT
  - Maybe; need followup
    - GridSAM
  - Not sure
    - Globus (not present on the call to confirm status)

  Draft of experimental document with message templates is available

* Purpose of Interoperability Activities discussion

  Agenda and discussion overview in Purpose-of-interop.ppt slides by Dave
  Snelling. https://forge.gridforum.org/sf/go/doc14998?nav=1

  - Agreed that interoperability is the goal; not interoperation
  - Agreed that purpose should be to prove that interopability is possible
  - Agreed that interoperability should be for a group of multiple
    specs, not for individual specs.  In other words a scenario driven
    profile bringing together multiple specs.

