OGSA Interim Meeting #14 - 4 April 2006 - Day 1
===============================================

* Participants

  Hiro Kishimoto (Fujitsu)
  Andreas Savva  (Fujitsu)
  Fred Maciel (Hitachi)
  Michel Drescher  (Fujitsu)
  Allen Luniewski (IBM)
  Steven Newhouse (OMII)
  Duane Merrill (UVa)
  Mark Morgan (UVa)
  Jay Unger (IBM)

  Bridge:
    Chris Jordan (SDSC) (am)
    Dave Berry (NESC) (pm)
    Ellen Stokes (IBM) (pm)

  Minutes: Andreas Savva

* Agenda Bashing 

  - Discussed whether to schedule a discussion for the ESI draft sent
    to the OGSA and OGSA-BES mailing lists at the next day's EMS
    session. Since the ESI draft was just sent out there is no time to
    review it beforehand. It was agreed to postpone the decision for
    tomorrow.

  - Agreed to have a short discussion on the WSRF/WS-MAN convergence
    document this day.

  - The Security area is a source of concern, due to the lack of
    progress. This should be one of the issues to discuss during the
    security session and what can be done to improve things.

* Document status review

  Reviewed the status of the OGSA deliverables.

** OGSA WSRF BP 1.0

   - Some minor updates are needed to bring it up to date with the
     WSRF 1.2 OASIS Standard version.
   - Tom will make the revisions.

** EMS Architecture document

   Pointed out that this is a separate document from the EMS
   Architecture scenarios currently in draft form.

   Discussed what form this document might take, drawing an analogy
   with the Data Architecture document developed within the OGSA-Data
   WG.

   Agreed to postpone the EMS Architecture document since there are
   too many uncertainties at the moment. Instead publish the OGSA EMS
   Scenarios document up to the scenarios covering the CDDLM
   interactions instead. The focus should be on using existing and
   formally published (or in public comment) specifications.

   Milestones: First draft by May 2006, for PC by July

** Information Model documents

   Two documents (guidelines and modeling) are expected to be complete
   or nearly complete by GGF17.

* GGF17 planning

  (See Hiro's slides for the updated slides.)

  Two sessions planned: EMS and Information Model session
  1. EMS: Introduction and explanation of scenarios
  2. Information Model: 
     - Guideline and model explanation
     - Interaction with GIN and their work (GLUE sub-set?)

  Action: Steven Newhouse to ask Jennifer Schopf on the status of the
          GIN modeling document.

* Teleconference schedule

  - Agreed to move Wednesday teleconference to Thursday and change
    time to 1:30 GMT.

  - Discussed how to improve efficiency of the meetings: Some
    proposals:
    - Shorter, single topic meetings
    - Agendas sent out well in advance (at least 48 hours). [This is
      already common practice.]
    - Upload/send out material in advance. At least 24 hours in
      advance (some suggested 1 business day instead) so as to avoid
      last minute cancellations. And the co-chairs may choose to
      cancel meetings if no relevant documents are available.
    - (Semi)automate the above using gridforge.

  - No firm decisions but will try out the various proposals
    especially the rule on uploading material well in advance and
    cancelling meetings otherwise.

  - Reviewed the proposed schedule. Hiro will send this out to the
    list.

* WS-Management Roadmap discussion

  Agreed that convergence in this area is a good development. But
  there are many concerns with the proposed way of going about
  it---outside the standards process until almost the end. We must
  make clear that the proposed process is not acceptable and that the
  specifications must be brought to, and developed in, a standards
  body quickly.

  Also discussed the functional equivalence of today's specs and the
  future 'converged' specs. Agreed that this is a topic that should be
  revisited when the relevant drafts are made available.

  Action: Hiro to schedule a discussion in the OGSA F2F after the
          converged specs drafts are released to discuss which sets of
          specs to use within OGSA.
  
* OGSA DMIS WG (proposed) discussion

  Michel gave an introduction to the proposed DMIS WG (See also slides
  on gridforge.)
  - This is a proposed OGSA-prefixed WG. 
  - There was a BoF at the last GGF
  - The official proposal (7 questions) were sent to the Area
    Director.

  - Will it used WS-Agreement? It is a candidate but there are no
    decisions yet.
  - Two renderings: WS-I and OGSA WSRF BP. And will probably factor or
    at least identify a core component that is not specific to either
    of these renderings.
  - Is it just for files? No, it should be more general (data
    oriented) than file oriented.
  - Scope contains both the setup and the transfer functions. One
    approach might be for the setup portion (agreement portion) to be
    done in another WG.
  - ByteIO relationship? ByteIO is more for remote access. It could be
    used as the protocol for transfering data.
  - Is it copying or moving (including ownership so that there is no
    copy remaining at the source)? It is copying. But could implement
    other semantics in addition.
  - The way names are defined is an important component. WS-Naming is
    a candidate here. There are some concerns on when that
    specification will be available however.
  - What happens if the data to be moved is produced on demand and
    does not have a name? Can you give as an input the producer of the
    data (the data factory)? DMIS specifies the management of the
    operation not the definition of source and target.

* Information model review

** JSDL 1.0 to CIM 2.10 mapping

   Reviewed Excel sheet by Ellen Stokes.

   - Potential additions to CIM are marked with text "(new)"
   - Type description not completely checked yet
   - CIM does not have an equivalent to the JSDL resource
     requirements. A new class is needed. Some of the contained
     attributes will then come from existing CIM classes.
   - In the excel sheet 1/3 is CIM re-use and 2/3 extensions. Ellen
     made a choice to mark as "new" certain JSDL attributes (e.g.,
     individualPhysicalMemory) that may have CIM equivalents in some
     classes but may not match exactly in semantics.
   - (Does CIM cover time varying values? E.g., the available memory
     may change over time.)
   - There is a bigger issue with the matching between the JSDL
     description and the advertising of resource capabilities. There
     are two options: building the description of the capabilities on
     top of CIM (CIM informs the capabilities advertised but those
     capabilities may not be based on the CIM metamodel), or in
     CIM. In many cases what might be advertised as a capability may
     be some value that is calculated using a combination of
     underlying CIM attributes and may be different depending on who
     is receiving it, due to different policies applied for different
     users.
     - Proposal is to come up with a way to create that
       abstracted/simplified/derived view from the more complex
       underlying CIM description. (And this abstracted view could
       still be defined as a CIM metamodel together with algorithms to
       map from the complex view to the abstracted view)
     - Matching would be done against this abstracted view
     - RSS would use this abstracted view for matching using the job
       requirement description.
     (- It may also be possible to use this underlying approach to
        defining the model for expressing these capabilities for
        defining resource requirements in a future JSDL specification,
        with the requirement that such a future spec would also allow
       transforming existing 1.0 documents to the new spec.)
     - The information available in CIM now is geared towards
       management while the abstracted information would be geared
       towards workload management.

   Proposal: Do a position paper on how to model this capability space
             and how it is derived from the underlying CIM model.

   Action: Ellen will do a revised visio diagram that has only the
           relevant BES attributes and JSDL attributes (base it off
           the info_model_for_BES/BES Container class)

* Modeling guidelines document review

  - The term 'Profile' gives the wrong impression since the previous
    discussion implies that this is not a restriction of CIM. Agreed
    that it would be better to call it 'information model
    specification'.

  - Who does the rendering? State that it is the individual WGs.

  - In section 4.1 to aid readability, adopt the same style of
    definitions for status as described in GFD.59. For example:

    4.1.x Recommended OGSA IMP as Proposed Recommendation
          Every CIM class in a Recommended IMP, when at the Proposed
          Recommendation stage of publication, MUST have one of the
          following DMTF CIM class status Final or Experimental.

          Every CIM class in a OGSA IMP Profile, when at the Proposed
          Recommendation stage of publication, MUST be Interoperable.

          CIM classes referenced by a Recommended OGSA IMP MUST be use
          the same version of CIM schema.

  - Add DMTF CR process as new section in chapter 4
  - Merge section 4.2 into section 3.2
  - Merge chapter 5 into section 1.1

