OGSA F2F Session - 19 10 2007 - OGSA Security Profile 2.0
=========================================================

* Participants

  Hiro
  Dave
  Steven N
  Duane
  Fred M
  Michel
  Donal
  Steve McG
  Joel
  Andreas
  Chris Sosa (UVA)
  Fred B (visited for 5 minutes)

  Minutes: Donal.

* Make the SP2 documents acceptable to Blair Dillaway and other people
  in Security Area

 [-] ISSUE: Make other parts not dependent on WS-SecureAddressing
 [-] ACTION: Duane

 [-] ISSUE: Talk about ability within SPs to talk about claims
            relating to authz policy
 [-] ACTION: Duane

 [-] ISSUE: Describe other ways to convey info, e.g. profile on WSDL,
     UDDI, see also WS-MEX except not yet standardized enough, see
     also WS-PAEPR in W3C
 [-] ACTION: Duane

 [-] ISSUE: Combine to two documents
    1: What are the "good" policies?
    2: How do we put the info in EPRs?
 [-] ACTION: Duane

* Archtecturally, where are we going with EPRs? We have naming info
  and security info, but what else is there?

 [-] ISSUE: What is in WS-KitchenSink?
 [-] ACTION: Dave & Steven to consider, write up a proposal for main
             OGSA group.
 [-] ACTION: Hiro to arrange time at next F2F to discuss.

